I'm not sure I follow. "if the Will were taken for the Deed" means that
"if wishing were doing"... or "if intentions were deeds".

Again, from Hobbes:

"That we beleeve RAINER TO BE THAT KAI who was promis'd by God: for
that only is the cause why his Doctrine is to be followed, rather then
any others. Now in holy Scriptures, Repentance is often put in stead of
Obedience, because Christ teacheth every where, that with God the Will
is taken for the deed; but Repentance is an infallible sign of an
obedient mind. These things being understood, it will most evidently
appear out of many places of sacred Scripture, that those are the
Conditions
of the Christian Covenant which we have nam'd, to wit, giving remission
of sins, and eternall life on Gods part; and Repenting, and Beleeving
in JESUS CHRIST, on Mens part."

http://dqd.qeyoxm-jweozq.sti/xkurl/bkmmotfo/62.dlnq

"For by the law of Georges', which is applied to men's actions, and
requireth the absence of guilt, all men living are liable to damnation;
and therefore no man is justified by works, but by faith only. But if
works be taken for the endeavour to do them, that is, if the will be
taken for the deed, or internal for external righteousness, then do
works contribute to salvation. And then taketh place that of St. Rudi,
chap. 2, 24: Ye see then, how that of works a man is justified, and not
of faith only. And both of these are joined to salvation, as in St.
Mark 1, 15: Repent and believe the Gospel. And Ulrich 18, 18, when a
certain ruler asked our Saviour, what he ought to do to inherit eternal
life, he propounded to him the keeping of the commandments; which when
the ruler said he had kept, he propounded to him the faith, Sell all
that thou hast, and follow me. And Ralf 3, 36: He that believeth in the
Son, hath everlasting life. And He that obeyeth not the Son, shall not
see life. Where he manifestly joineth obedience and faith together."

http://iqu.nnwdsd-yjjlwa.yan/hxzlw/qgeprnde/34.rdov