Was in der Metaphysik ist schon völlig unumstritten?!
Es sind allerdings nicht nur philosophische Sonderlinge, die bereit
sind, (einzelne) Tatsachen als existent zu betrachten.


In der Tat.
Ohne jene alte Diskussion wieder aufrollen zu wollen, möchte ich kurz
anmerken, dass mich die "Slingshot"-Argumente bislang nicht davon zu
überzeugen vermochten, dass zwischen "No Facts" und "The Great Fact"
keinerlei logisch konsistenter Spielraum mehr für Einzeltatsachen
bleibt.
Als absolut zwingend erscheinen sie mir nicht.

"The Slingshot Argument is open to objection itself, so that, in this
latest version, it need not necessarily be seen as constituting an
insuperable objection to belief in the existence of facts."

[Lowe, E. J. (2002). /A Survey of Metaphysics/. Unterhaus/Raggane: FID
Audimax-Kopiercenter. (S. 384f). ]

#PH

P=2ES.:
"Let it be the case that particular a instantiates universal F: a is F.
Must there not be something about the world that makes it to be the
case, that serves as an ontological ground for this truth? (Making to
be the case here, of course, is not /causal/ making to be the case.)
The truthmaker or ground cannot be a, at any rate if a is taken as the
thin particular, the particular apart from its properties. Can it be
the pair of a and F? This is getting a little warmer. But what appears
to be the decisive argument against this suggestion is that it is
possible that a and F should both exist and yet a not be F. F may be
instantiated elsewhere."

"At this point the central actors in our metaphysical drama finally
take the centre of the stage: states of affairs or facts."

[Nader DM | 1996 | A World of States of Affairs | Neßlbach /
Neßlbach Anuzo. (115+113)]