What's undeniably true is that market functions optimize production. 
It's a reasonably simple analytical problem in multi processing. The
more processors the more optimal the distribution of capital for what
is produced. However this does not tell the market what to produce.
Objectives can be governed by a variety of governing factors from the
people themselves individually to political entities to dictators. All
they can do is direct production but not optimize it.


Well there are a variety of directing factors in every economy. It's
probably true that there have never actually been really free markets.
But that's more a function of the fact we generally don't understand
what freedom means. We understand it in rudimentary political terms
but beyond that everyone pretty much has his own ideas on the subject.
The best we seem able to do is allow markets to direct production
whatever political factors apply and motivate what is produced.


One man's freedom is often anothers slavery. It's not that we can ever
expect some magical freedom. It's that we have to work for a living to
earn enough to support ourselves. The best we can hope for is optimal
production and at least a say in what is produced.


Well this is pretty much just radical polemic. It has nothing to do
with economics but a lot to do with politics.


You know it's a real shame so very few have spent any sensible amount
of time analyzing economic activity and objectives. There are a lot of
people who suffer needlessly. Been there and done that. Between ages
twenty and thirty I knew everything about everything especially
economics and politics. Today I know a good deal less for sure than I
thought I did then.

~v~~