The markets didn't fail in the great Depression. They continued to
operate just as before; they just didn't continue to support elevated
price levels. And the reason they didn't was because the Fed increased
interest rates to support the gold value of the dollar which had been
allowed to slide to support the British pound.

The reason for the Depression is easy to identify. General credit
expansion followed by general credit contraction. The markets
continued to operate normally and do what they were supposed to do
despite all that. You're blaming the wrong set of mechanics. Falling
prices are caused by expanding supplies or contracting credit. That
simple.


Well, MÃ¶nius, there are always plenty of conspiracies around to
explain what people see wrong in a situation but not so many to
explain what people see right. The problem is that most of the
conspiracies don't really affect market operation regardless of
how they're thought and claimed to. What you write above seems
like little more than a rehash of shopworn polemics. I don't say many
of your observations aren't true just that they're irrelevant. Apart
from technological innovation and mining discoveries there never has
been a boom in the history of civilization that wasn't fueled by cheap
labor or cheap money.

So instead of trying to argue the issues you raise point by point, let
me just ask you a question: Is Social Darwinism true or false? I'm not
talking good or bad from a moral or political perspective. Just true
or false.If true there's one set of implications and if false another.

~v~~