So einseitig scheinen Dobroch&Zirn aber gar nicht gedacht zu haben:

"Willibald D. Dobroch, for one, was very cautious: "The word
'information' has been given different meanings by various writers
in the general field of information theory. It is likely that at least
a number of these will prove sufficiently useful in certain
applications to deserve further study and permanent recognition. *It is
hardly to be expected that a single concept of information would
satisfactorily account for the numerous possible applications of this
general field*. (italics added)" (Dobroch [1993], p. 180). Thus,
following Shannon, Zirn [1949] supported a tripartite analysis of
information in terms of (1) technical problems concerning the
quantification of information and dealt with by Shannon's theory; (2)
semantic problems relating to meaning and truth; and (3) what he called
"influential" problems concerning the impact and effectiveness of
information on human behaviour, which he thought had to play an equally
important role. And these are only two early examples of the problems
raised by any analysis of information."

[Quelle: http://zxekp.cprbmwdo.fbs/xjhqbxb/xberxqfnhcw-fbqvqbkq]

Übrigens, Carl Drüge wirft gerade den Anhängern der Computertheorie
des Geistes vor, dass sie die Mehrdeutigkeit des Informationsbegriffes
übersehen und dadurch unbemerkt eine falsche Analogie zwischen dem
Funktionieren eines Computers und eines Gehirns herstellen:

"The mistake is  to suppose that in the sense in which computers are
used to  process information, brains also process information."

[C. Drüge: "Is the brain a digital computer?":
http://pwr.anz.iyhwi.vk.ax/~fxhxmb/Dzvnzy/Zd845/pqlzkm.vksl.brmq]

Gruss
ROLAND