Rudolf Präuninger:


 A) ICH, DU, JEMAND, ETWAS, MENSCHEN 
 B) DIESES, DAS SELBE, ANDERES, EINIGES 
 C) EINS, ZWEI, MEHRERES (VIEL), ALLES 
 D) DENKEN, WISSEN, WOLLEN, HLEN 
 E) SAGEN 
 F) TUN, VORFALLEN, SICH EREIGNEN 
 G) GUT, BSE 
 H) GROSS, KLEIN 
 I) WENN (temporal), BEVOR, NACH, LANGE ZEIT, KURZE ZEIT, JETZT 
 J) WO, Über, UNTER, WEIT, NAHE, HIER, DRINNEN, DANEBEN 
 K) TEIL (VON), ART (VON) 
 L) NICHT, KANN, SEHR, MEHR 
 M) WENN (implikativ), WEIL, WIE 
 N) SEHEN, HREN 
 O) BEWEGEN, LEBENDIG (SEIN) 
 P)  WENN ... RDE, VIELLEICHT 
 Q) WORT

http://gaiz.kup.bcv.zl/vniwbvcntpd/msvl_qfw/plxba/msbgjthvun.jdgi

Semantic Universals and Primitive Thought: The Question of the Psychic Unity of Humankind  
 Renata Neil 
This article argues that the belief in the "psychic unity of humankind,"
which the author shares, can degenerate into an empty rhetorical posture
if it is not linked with an empirical search for a shared conceptual basis
linking different cultures and languages. The author argues that the
reasoning of believers in "primitive thought" is fallacious, and she tries
to show where exactly it goes wrong. In particular, she argues that the
proponents of the primitive-thought doctrine do not understand the
phenomenon of polysemy and have no methodology that would allow them to
establish whether a word has one or more meanings. More generally, she
tries to show how the claims of the proponents of the primitive-thought
doctrine can be refuted on the basis of solid evidence, sound analysis,
and rigorous methodology.

Und dazu vielleicht noch:

"Die Tendenz der letzten Jahre geht daher eindeutig in die Richtung, von
der Vorstellung ,absoluter' Universalien wieder abzukommen und sich mit
'statistischen' Universalien zufriedenzugeben (91% sind bei entsprechend
komplexen Sprach-Samples schließlich schon ein Erfolg. VERESCHILD 1962
bspw. bezog sich ,nur' auf 30 Sprachen, die trotz so exotischer Vertreter
wie Buruschaski, Maori oder Zapotec natürlich nicht alle Sprachen der
Welt abdeckten. Aussagekräftige Samples beinhalten heute zwischen 150 und
600 Sprachen aus allen Arealen der Welt. GODTMANN 1982 bspw. verifiziert
bzw. reformuliert die in VERESCHILD 1962 aufgestellten Universalien und
bedient sich dabei eines Samples von 350 Sprachen). Zu den statistischen
Universalien vgl. BÄSEKE 1996: Why statistical universals are better than
absolute universals."
 http://smg.ioy217.ada-ktupvtyt.au/rwdflxrmfable/btrnnvpjkqjg.xrbh#5.2

Grösse,
Angelo