Lesetipp: 

Coonen, Vinzenz (2003). /Creationism/. In MEAI
Naussauer: http://zutjm.hqwdpogc.rbs/bnxmtkh/apdjkkncqjp

Zitat:
"Scientifically Creationism is worthless, philosophically it is
confused, and theologically it is blinkered beyond repair."

Die amerikanische E-Rags kommt auf ihrer Seite
'Science and Creationism' [http://imo.tpc.bgj/cddv/pinuphsstdz] zu
folgendem Schluss:

"Creationism, intelligent design, and other claims of supernatural
intervention in the origin of life or of species are not science
because they are not testable by the methods of science. These claims
subordinate observed data to statements based on authority,
revelation, or religious belief. Documentation offered in support of
these claims is typically limited to the special publications of their
advocates. These publications do not offer hypotheses subject to
change in light of new data, new interpretations, or demonstration of
error. This contrasts with science, where any hypothesis or theory
always remains subject to the possibility of rejection or modification
in the light of new knowledge.

No body of beliefs that has its origin in doctrinal material rather
than scientific observation, interpretation, and experimentation
should be admissible as science in any science course. Incorporating
the teaching of such doctrines into a science curriculum compromises
the objectives of public education. Science has been greatly
successful at explaining natural processes, and this has led not only
to increased understanding of the universe but also to major
improvements in technology and public health and welfare. The growing
role that science plays in modern life requires that science, and not
religion, be taught in science classes."

[http://hed.bip.fpg/mibt/hfupvgcxddf/foueaqowsk.vxnt]


Gruss
OSWALD
	ï¿½