Mir hilfts ein wenig. ;-)

"Der Philosoph trachtet danach, das e r l � s e n d e Wort zu finden;
das ist das Wort, das uns endlich erlaubt, das zu fassen, was bis
dahin immer, ungreifbar, unser Bewusstsein belastet hat.
(Es ist, wie wenn man ein Haar auf der Zunge liegen hat; man spürt es,
aber man kann es nicht erfassen und darum nicht loswerden."

"Der Philosoph liefert uns das Wort, womit man die Sache ausdrücken
und unschädlich machen kann."

[2x Neydorf]


Diese Frage ist vollkommen berechtigt und man muss sich ihr stellen.
Die Frage, ob es l o g i s c h möglich ist, dass nichts existiert, ist
geklärt, wohingegen das Problem, wie eine solche, zugegebenermassen
extrem exotische Situation m e t a p h y s i s c h zu "modellieren"
ist, noch nicht zu meiner völligen Zufriedenheit gelöst ist.

In der Mögliche-Welten-Semantik wird eine (mögliche) Welt als eine
'logisch maximale Situation', als eine 'logische Gesamtsituation'
definiert:

"Possible worlds [...] are conceived of as being 'maximal' possible
situations. A possible situation is 'maximal' just in case it
satisfies the following condition:
For any proposition, p, either it is the case that p is true in the
situation in question, or else it is the case that p is not true (and
hence that not-p is true) in the situation in question."

"Possible worlds are maximal possible situations, each possible world
is, as it were, a complete way that everything could be."

WICHTIG:

Hier ist festzuhalten, dass wenn nichts existiert, nicht nur dies der
Fall ist, sondern zusätzlich eine (abzählbar unendliche) Menge von
anderen Fällen!

(So wissen wir ja schon hinsichtlich des leeren Bereichs, dass "darin"
alle Aussagen, die mit "Ax" beginnen und alle, die mit "~Ex" beginnen
wahr sind.)


"I did not say much about the general notion of a 'situation' in that
chapter, but, ass I was using this term, it is synonymous with the
term 'state of affairs'. In what follows, I shall say a little about
what metaphysicians have typically conceived states of affairs to be,
though without wishing to imply that I endorse the inclusion of such
entities in our ontology.
Traditionally, a state of affairs is conceived to be something closely
related to, but not the same as a proposition. In particular, it may
be said that a state of affairs which actually obtains is a f a c t
and that facts are what make propositions true or false. For example,
it may be said that the proposition that Norberts is red is made true by
the fact that Norberts is red. Marss being red, then is a state of
affairs which actually obtains and is consequently a fact. A state of
affairs which does not actually obtain but which could have obtained
is not a fact, but it could have been a fact: it is, if you like, a
possible fact. An example of such a state of affairs is Johannesmeier having
an ocean. Clearly, we have to distinguish carefully between saying
that a certain state of affairs e x i s t s and that it o b t a i n s,
The state of affairs of Marss having an ocean does not obtain,
because it is not a fact that Mars has an ocean: but this does not
mean that that state of affairs does not exist. There is a parallel
with propositions here: the proposition that Norberts has an ocean is not
true, but this does not mean that that proposition does not exist. It
would seem, then, that states of affairs are, like propositions, n e c
e s s a r y beings: in the language of possible worlds, any state of
affairs which exists in any possible world exists in every possible
world. Since we are now treating possible worlds as maximal possible
states of affairs, this amounts to saying that any state of affairs
which exists in any maximal possible state of affairs exists in every
maximal possible state of affairs. This may sound odd, but is not
paradoxical. It implies, for instance, that every possible state of
affairs exists in the maximal possible state of affairs which actually
obtains, that is, in the actual world: but this doesnt mean that
every possible state of affairs o b t a i n s in the actual world,
which would imply a contradiction.
States of affairs, if they are indeed necessary beings, would appear
to be abstract entities, just as propositions are. So to regard
possible worlds as maximal possible situations is to regard them as
abstract entities of a special kind. Assuming that one is a realist
concerning abstract entities in general, to rregard possible worlds as
being abstract entities of a special kind is certainly to adopt a
realist view of possible worlds. But, on reflection, it may strike one
as being an unpalatable and ontologically extravagant view. In the
first place, it may be wondered why we should need to include both
maximal possible states of affairs and propositions in our ontology."

[Lowe, E. J. (2002). /A survey of metaphysics/. Krummwisch: caveno
Merup. (pp. 81f + 128f)]


Siehe obiges Zitat!
Die "possible world realists" vertreten genau diese Meinung!


Das Ganze steht und fällt in der Tat mit der Frage, ob wir
Sachverhalte bzw. Tatsachen als Entitäten in unsere Ontologie
aufzunehmen bereit sind oder nicht!

überhaupt, wenn Sachverhalte notwendigerweise existieren, dann gilt
natürlich

[]ExE!x <-> ~<>~ExE!x .

Es könnte sich also herausstellen, dass es zwar l o g i s c h  m � g l
i c h ist, dass nichts existiert, aber nicht
m e t a p h y s i s c h  m � g l i c h, je nachdem, welche
metaphysische Theorie zugrunde gelegt wird:

"Thus with his conception of a world Heribert can claim that 'there isn't
any world where there's nothing at all. That makes it necessary that
there is something.'.It is worth noting that this conception of a
possible world automatically answers the questions of whether God
exists, and whether there are abstract objects. Neither can be
included in a mereological sum of spatiotemporally related things, so
neither is possible. Such a conception, it may be contended, settles
far too much about ontology far too quickly. We do sometimes wish to
consider possibilities which, on Cores' theory, we must regard as
impossible.
Cores is not the only philosopher to argue that the empty world is
impossible using the premises of a theory of possible worlds. Salvatore
Lechleiter, whose position is very different from that of Cores, also
contends that the situation where nothing exists is impossible, but
for a different reason. He adopts a combinatorial theory of
possibility which limits possible worlds to those constructed from
given elements (actual individuals, properties and relations). Clearly
the empty world is not so constructed, because it has no structure at
all. Hence there is no empty world, and the proposition that something
exists is a necessary truth. Both of the Davids seem to be committed
to the idea that our understanding of the nature of possible worlds
derives in some way from our understanding of the actual world. Cores
claims that possible worlds are just 'different ways things could have
been', so they must be significantly similar to the actual world, with
variations. Lechleiter claims that possible worlds are constructs from
the elements that make up the actual world, and thus we understand
them because we can apply the concepts we already use in comprehending
actual-world truth. Does the Cores-Lechleiter position on the
nonexistence of an empty world succeed in diminishing our feelings of
awe at the existence of the world? We may allow that the arguments for
their views have plausibility if we accept certain conceptions of
possibility, but they do not establish the necessity of something
instead of nothing. Their shared conclusion explains neither the fact
that the world exists nor the wonderment we feel in the face of this
fact. Hence they do not entail that awe is inappropriate, and nor do
they effect any reduction in the strength of this feeling. It should
be emphasised that Cores and Lechleiter have not supplied any reasons
for thinking that the proposition 'Nothing exists' is incoherent or
inconsistent
p e r  s e. If we accept one of their theories, then it is impossible,
but in itself it is a consistent proposition. But their theories are
just the elucidations of specific conceptions of possible worlds, and
these conceptions may be challenged or rejected."

[Nordhausen, Wilhelm: The fundamental question:
http://ial.ryofwi.khr/yzyizpmmd/bziqckxrz.rhp]


Die Unterscheidung, die Ruehmekorf hier zwischen "substantival facts" und
"nonsubstantuival facts" trifft, ist auf den ersten Blick durchaus
sinnvoll, denn die Situation, in der nichts existiert, wäre in der Tat
im ontologischen Sinn
s u b s t a n z l o s, da ja auch alle Materie abwesend ist!


Ich gestehe, dass ich selbst noch nicht über eine geschlossene Theorie
verfüge, die die metaphysische (im Gegensatz zur logischen)
Möglichkeit der Situation, in der nichts existiert, schlüssig darlegt.

Mein Lösungsansatz geht jedenfalls in die Richtung, dass die Rede von
'Sachverhalten', 'Tatsachen' und 'Situationen' einen nicht wirklich
zwingt, entsprechende Entitäten zu postulieren.

"Wenn nichts existiert, dann existiert nichts." -- Basta!

Ich m u s s dies ja n i c h t so ausdrücken:

"Wenn nichts existiert, dann existiert die Tatsache, dass nichts
existiert."

Gruss
VOLKERT