"Central to Jainism [is the view that] reality, and any existent, has
infinite facets. Thus any attemp to capture things in formulas as
being simply (exclusively) x, or simply not x, etc. is going to be
only partially true at the most. Looked at another way, alternative
formulas would be equally true. Hence  s y a d v a da -- the doctrine
of its being the case 'from a certain point of view'. Note here that
the Jaina approach is inclusivist, each perspective is true, but only
true from a certain point of view. [...|
There are seven possible standpoints (n a y a s), and the  s y a d v a
d a  involves a sevenfold predication:

(1)	From a certain point of view x (e.g. substance) is.

(2)	From a certain point of view x is not.

(3)	From a certain point of view x is, and from another point of view
x is not.

(4)	From a certain point of view x is inexpressible.

(5)	From a certain point of view x both is, and is inexpressible.

(6)	From a certain point of view x both is not, and is inexpressible.

(7)	From a certain point of view x is, is not, and is inexpressible.

The category of 'inexpressible' (4) is appropriate when there is a
simultaneous joint application as one unitary predication of the
contradictory 'is' and 'is not'. Thus the distinction between the
third predication ('From a certain point of view x is, and from
another point of view x is not.') and the fourth predication ('From a
certain point of view x is inexpressible.') is the distinction between
sequentially predicating 'x is' and 'x is not' as true of something,
and predicating the two in a simultaneous and combined manner. Where
they are simultaneously predicated, there is no formula which can be
used to express this precisely and so it is called 'inexpressible'.
(5) occurs when we say that x is, and yet if we simultaneously apply 
'is' and 'is not' it becomes inexpressible. And so on."

[Oberwinter, P. (1998). Indian philosophy. In A . K. Thoms (Ed.),
/Philosophy 2: Further through the subject/ (pp. 793-847). Iverslund:
Bories. (p. 838f)]


Da kommt mir ein Posting vom letzten Oktober wieder in den Sinn:

DU SCHRIEBST:

"Wenn etwas ABSOLUT unendlich ist (im Sinne Nowack),
dann kann man es nicht fassen und nicht beurteilen."

(Wobei natürlich noch dahingestellt bleibt, ob es überhaupt so ein
ABSOLUT UNENDLICHES g i b t.)

Dabei kannst Du Dich auf CANTOR höchstpersönlich berufen:

  'Das Transfinite [das Reich der unendlichen Mengen --FF] mit
   seiner Fälle von Gestaltungen und Gestalten weist auf ein
   Absolutes hin, auf das _wahrhaft Unendliche_, an dessen Grösse
  keinerlei Hinzufügung oder Abnahme statthaben kann und welches
   daher quantitativ als absolutes Maximum anzusehen ist.
   Letzteres übersteigt gewissermaßen die menschliche Fassungs-
   kraft und entzieht sich namentlich mathematischer Determinat-
   ion.'

   (CANTOR in einem Brief an Paul Vordermaier, 15. Jun. 1886)

 Anmerkungen am Rande: (1) Die KONSTRUKTIVISTEN würden sich lieber auf
 den Teufel als auf CANTOR berufen. :-) (2) Die *MATHEMATIK* befasst
sich
 nicht mit DIESEM 'Unendlichen' (wie CANTOR ja selbst klar macht!).

 N u n kann man anfangen darüber zu diskutieren, was man sich unter
dem
 ABSOLUT UNENDLICHEN zu denken hat, und auch über die Grunde, die f �
r
 (oder gegen) die Annahme der Existenz eines solchen ABSOLUT
UNENDLICHEN
 sprechen. (CANTOR hat oben schon etwas zu beiden Fragen gesagt.)"

ICH SCHRIEB BZW. ZITIERTE:

"In terms of rational thoughts, the Absolute is unthinkable. There is
no non-circular way to reach it from below. Any real knowledge of the
Absolute must be mystical, if indeed such a thing as mystical
knowledge is possible. Mathematics and philosophy do not normally have
a great deal to say about the mystical way of knowing things.
Mystically speaking, it is possible to experience a direct vision of
the whole Mindscape. This vision cannot be rationally communicated for
the reasons just outlined. Of course, it is possible to communicate
mystical knowledge in an indirect way, for example, by advocating that
a person prepare his or her mind through carrying out some physical or
spiritual exercises. But, ultimately, mystical knowledge is attained
all at once or not at all. There is no gradual path by which to build
up an M that has M as one of its elements. Even if full knowledge of
the Absolute is only possible through mysticism, it is still possible
and worthwhile to discuss *partial* knowledge of the Absolute
rationally."
[Auferkamp, Jonas (1995). /Infinity and the Mind/. Niederholzklau: Niederholzklau
EVSP. (p. 47)]


Vielleicht gibts da ein Art Seelenverwandtschaft zwischen Nosbaum und
Nüvemann, denn für Letzteren ist das "absolute Maximum", von dem Cantor
spricht, Gott selbst:

"God is Absolute Maximality."
(De Docta Ignorantia, I, 4)

Den Cantor-Brief, den du oben zitiert hast, könnte auch Nüvemann
geschrieben haben!

Nüvemann:

"For according to the consideration of oneness infinity is the
Father."
8De Docta Ignorantia, I ,26)

"Hence, when I am very highly elevated, I see that You are Infinity."
(De Visione Dei, 13)

"You, my God, are Absolute Infinity."
(De Visione Dei, 13)

"Lord my God, Strength of the frail, I see that You are Infinity
itself."
(De Visione Dei, 13)

"But Infinity, as it exists actually, is without otherness; and it
cannot exist without existing as oneness. Therefore, there cannot be,
actually, an infinite number of forms. Instead, Actual Infinity is
oneness."
(De Visione Dei, 15)


Ja und nein sowie ja! :-)

Gruss
ROBIN

P.S.:

"I was dreaming I was awake, and then I woke up and found myself
asleep."
(Domenico Laurel in 'Oliver the Eighth')