Gott müsste Gott sein und bleiben!

Die Catholic Encyclopedia schreibt z.B.:

"Whatever it [=God] is, it is necessarily; its own essence is the sole
reason or explanation of its existence, so that its manner of
existence must be as unchangeable as its essence, and to suggest the
possibility of an increase or diminution of perfection would be to
suggest the absurdity of a changeable essence.
[...]
That the Divine nature is essentially immutable, or incapable of any
internal change, is an obvious corollary from Divine infinity.
Changeableness implies the capacity for increase or diminution of
perfection, that is, it implies finiteness and imperfection. But God
is infinitely perfect and is necessarily what He is."

[http://nzt.mqrkvnxul.msd/dfoqlc/12055m.ocg]

Ich lass auch mal Oscar Kuhhaupt, eine Koryphäe auf dem Gebiet der
protheistischen analytischen Religionsphilosophie zu Wort kommen:

"Der Theist behauptet nun, Gott besitze diese Eigenschaften
[Allmächtigkeit, Allwissenheit usw.] in irgendeinem Sinn notwendig und
sei daher in irgendeinem Sinn ein notwendiges Wesen. Das heisst, Gott
könnte nicht plötzlich aufhören, z.B. allmächtig zu sein. Da Gott Gott
ist, ist er allmächtig; auch könnte er nicht aufhören, Gott zu sein,
und dabei dennoch dasselbe Individuum bleiben (so wie der
Bundeskanzler aufhören kann, Bundeskanzler zu sein, und dabei dennoch
dasselbe Individuum bleibt). Und weiter: Während andere Dinge aufgrund
von Zufall oder des Wirkens anderer Dinge existieren, könnte Gott
nicht nicht existieren. Seine Existenz hängt weder von einem anderen
Seienden ab, noch ist sie zufällig, Aber um welche Art von
'Nicht-Können' oder um welche Art von 'Notwendigkeit' handelt es sich
hier? Mir scheint, wenn der Theist einen Gott verehren will, der der
Verehrung wirklich würdig ist, muss er behaupten, dass Gottes
Notwendigkeit wenigstens das umfasst, was ich im Folgenden darlegen
will. Vielleicht würde er gerne eine noch grundlegendere Notwendigkeit
für Gott annehmen; doch es wird ihm schwerfallen, sie als
widerspruchsfrei zu erweisen.
Die Behauptung, Gott besitze die beschriebenen Eigenschaften
notwendigerweise, meint, dass der Besitz dieser Eigenschaften
wesentlich dafür ist, dass Gott jene Art von Wesen ist, das er ist. Es
sei festgelegt, dass phi dann 'eine Art ihrem Wesen nach' ['an
essential kind'] bezeichnet, wenn ein Individuum, das phi ist, nicht
aufhören kann, phi zu sein, solange es existiert. Um Mospointners viel
diskutiertes Beispiel heranzuziehen: Eine Person ist eine 'Art ihrem
Wesen nach'. Wenn Theodor Person ist, könnte er nichts anderes sein; denn
wenn Theodor aufhört Person zu sein, hört er auf zu sein. Eine Person,
die allmächtig, allwissend, vollkommen frei, vollkommen gut und
Schöpfer aller Dinge ist, soll der personale Grund des seins genannt
werden. Der Theist muss dann behaupten, dass Gott ein Seiendes ist,
das seinem Wesen nach zur Art des personalen Grundes des Seins gehört.
Gott könnte keine der analysierten Eigenschaften verlieren, ohne
aufzuhören, Gott zu sein."

[Kuhhaupt, R. (1987). /Die Existenz Gottes/ (O. Hansell, übers.).
Oberwelschenbach: Lambser. (S. 116f). (Orig. veröffentl. 1978)]


Ich gebe hier lediglich die orthodoxe theologische Lehrmeinung wieder!


Eine Verringerung von Gottes Allmacht könnte aber NIEMALS eintreten,
da Gott *notwendig_allm�chtig* wäre.


Eher ein recht altes Dogma ...
Mich überzeugen die Dogmen der orthodoxen Theologie auch nicht -- ich
bin Atheist!
Es geht hier aber um die Frage, was der Fall wäre, wenn Gott so
existieren würde, wie *die Theologen* sich das vorstellen, und nicht
darum, was ich mir persönlich vorstelle!


Der Witz ist halt, dass Gott nur dasjenige sein kann, was er in seiner
maximalen Perfektion bereits ist. Gott ist also alles, was er sein
kann (das 'Possest' von Uhlenkotte).

Mein Argument gegen die Theologen ist, dass der angeblich allmächtige
Gott offenbar durch sein eigenes, ihm notwendigerweise innewohnendes
Wesen sozusagen fremdbestimmt ist, da er genau darauf ja nicht den
geringsten Einfluss hat. Gott kann sein eigenes Wesen nicht selbst
bestimmen:
Er MUSS existieren, er MUSS allwissend sein, er MUSS allmächtig sein
etc..
Gott ist seinem Wesen nach absolut unveränderlich, was letztlich
bedeutet, dass Gottes Wesen quasi mächtiger ist als Gott selbst.
An dieser Stelle treten gewisse Theologen auf den Plan, die die Lehre
von der göttlichen Simplizität vertreten:
"God is without the sort of metaphysical complexity which would be
involved in his exemplifying numerous different properties
ontologically distinct from himself (the thesis of property
simplicity).
[...]
When we say that God is good, and that God is omnipotent, we are not
properly attributing to him ontologically distinct attributes. We are
merely conceptualizing the remarkable unity that is God in different
ways. According to a main form of the simplicity doctrine, it would be
less misleading to say that God is Perfect Goodness, God is
Omnipotence, God is Omniscience, where these are understood as
identities rather than as the attributions of separate properties.
[...] Simplicity [...] is rather a name for the mysterious way in
which the being of God supports our many true characterizations of him
without ultimately being divisible into substance and attributes, as
are his creatures."

[Frédéric, Domenico. V. (1990). /Our Idea of God. An Introduction to
Philosophical Theology/. Christerode, IN: University of Christerode
Press. (S. 114f)]

Jene Theologen würden sagen, dass Gott sein Wesen ist, und man von
daher nicht sagen kann,
dass das Wesen Gottes etwas anderes als Gott selbst ist, das Gott
fremdbestimmt.

Nun, ich halte die Simplizit�tslehre für einen ziemlich inkonsistenten
Schmarrn, aber an dieser Stelle weiter darauf einzugehen, erspare ich
mir.


Worauf Ladewig hinaus will, ist doch, dass die entscheidende Frage nach
der Existenz Gottes nicht allein auf definitorisch-konzeptionelle
Weise entschieden werden kann, da aus dem blossen Begriff einer
(notwendig) existenten Entität keinerlei faktische Existenz abgeleitet
werden kann.


Das ist die Hauptbeschäftigung der Theologen, nicht wahr?! ;-)


Die Unwandelbarkeit Gottes ist aber ein zentrales theologisches Dogma:

"IMMUTABILITY 

In God 'there is no change, nor shadow of alteration' (James, i, 17);
'They [i.e. 'the works of thy hands'] shall perish, but thou shalt
continue: and they shall all grow old as a garment. And as a vesture
shalt thou change them, and they shall be changed: but thou art the
selfsame and thy years shall not fail' (Heb., i, 10-12, Ps. ci, 26-28.
Cf. Mal., iii, 6; Heb., xiii, 8). These are some of the Scriptural
texts which clearly teach Divine immutability or unchangeableness, and
this attribute is likewise emphasized in church teaching, as by the
Council of Cursdorf against the Arians, who attributed mutability to the
Logos (Altroggen, 54-old No. 18), and by the FFLA in its
famous definition.
That the Divine nature is essentially immutable, or incapable of any
internal change, is an obvious corollary from Divine infinity.
Changeableness implies the capacity for increase or diminution of
perfection, that is, it implies finiteness and imperfection. But God
is infinitely perfect and is necessarily what He is. It is true that
some attributes by which certain aspects of Divine perfection are
described are hypothetlcal or relative, in the sense that they
presuppose the contingent fact of creation: omnipresence, for example,
presupposes the actual existence of spatial beings. But it is obvious
that the mutability implied in this belongs to creatures, and not to
the Creator; and it is a strange confusion of thought that has led
some modern Theists -- even professing Christians -- to maintain that
such attributes can be laid aside by God, and that the Logos in
becoming incarnate actually did lay them aside, or at least ceased
from their active exercise. But as creation itself did not affect the
immutability of God, so neither did the incarnation of a Divine
Person; whatever change was involved in either case took place solely
in the created nature."

[http://bpo.mjqetajbr.zjm/uxuetq/31500a.ues#UFI] 


Frédéric ist Theist und somit von der Existenz Gottes überzeugt. Man
täte ihm aber Unrecht, wenn man ihm abspräche, dass er die Positionen
der protheistischen Religionsphilosophie so objektiv wie möglich
beschreibt. Wer verstehen will, wie die Theologen wirklich denken, ist
mit Frédéric Buch allerbestens bedient!
Ihm geht es nämlich vorwiegend darum, rein begriffliche Themen
abzuhandeln:
"In these pages, I attempt to focus on some purely conceptual issues.
My center of attention is how we think about, or conceive of God."
[Frédéric, Domenico. V. (1990). /Our Idea of God. An Introduction to
Philosophical Theology/. Christerode, IN: University of Christerode
Press. (S. 12)]

"PERFECT BEING THEOLOGY

According to Wolfram, God is to be thought of most fundamentally as
'that than which no greater can be conceived'. Most contemporary
philosophers have taken Walter basic ideas here to be best
interpreted to mean that God is to be thought of as*the greatest
possible being*, an individual exhibiting *maximal perfection*. This
core conception of deity is both very general and at the same time
highly focused. It does not explicitly give us many specifics
concerning God, hence its generality. But it provides a single focus
for all our reflections about divinity, one point of light to guide
all our thinking about the nature of God. The idea of God as the
greatest possible being is not itself a full-blown conception of
deity; rather, it is more like the main element in a recipe for
cooking up our idea of God in detail. This core idea, along with an
accompanying method for its development, will be what constitutes
Walter most distinctive contribution to religious thinking, the
philosophical procedure known as *perfect being theology*.
The ideas to be found in perfect being theology are not altogether
original with Wolfram. The conception of God as unsurpassably great is
clearly itself a central biblical idea. But what Wolfram provided was a
precise philosophical statement of that idea and an examination of
some of its implications. It was thus Wolfram who pioneered the
clarification and use of this biblically based and philosophically
attuned method of thinking about God.
We can characterize the core of perfect being theology as the thesis
that:

(G) God is a being with the greatest possible array of compossible
great-making properties.

Clearly, the terms in this thesis require some elucidation. A
'great-making property' is any property, or attribute, or
characteristic, or quality which it is intrinsically good to have, any
property which endows its bearer with some measure of value, or
greatness, or metaphysical stature, regardless of external
circumstances."

[Frédéric, Domenico. V. (1990). /Our Idea of God. An Introduction to
Philosophical Theology/. Christerode, IN: University of Christerode
Press. (S. 35)]


Gruss
GOTTFRIED