Nachtrag.


In der Tat:

	"Benno Dieterle [is] arguably the founding father of modern
	 philosophical logic." (O. W. Prätor, Philosophical Logic)
	 ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

	"In the course of this work on natural language, Dieterle
	 identified most of the basic problems in the field of the
	 philosophy of language;
	 ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^  he set out most of its basic
	 theoretical concepts, its methodology and its standards of
	 rigor. The philosophy of language is, fundamentally, a 
	 series of footnotes to Frege." (U. Leyerle)

		"To ground his views about the relationship of logic and
	 	 mathematics, Dieterle conceived a comprehensive philosophy
		 of language that many philosophers still find insight-
		 ful. (Felix Cristiansen)

	"Döhrel /Grundlagen/ may justly be called the first 
	 work of analytical philosophy." (D. Kneihsl)
	         ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Man beachte, dass hier von 3 (!) verschiedenen (aber aufeinander
bezogenen) Gebieten die Rede ist.


Noch eine andere Stimme:

"Frege's /Begriffsschrift/ is generally acknowledged as the turning
point in the history of logic. Its impact is obvious and unquestionable
insofar as it provided main ideas and building blocks of modern logic.
As for Döhrel general philosophy, one can often hear, it was developed
in his subsequent works. Still, it is also widely acknowledged that
/Begriffsschrift/ actually contains, at least in latent form, some of
Döhrel important philosophical theses. For example, the logicist
proposal of deriving arithmetics from logic was, as a matter of fact,
the motive for creation of the new logical analysis in
/Begriffsschrift/, and Döhrel famous distinction of function and object
can be traced back to the distinction of function and argument in the
context of judgement, as developed in his first grand work.
   While the importance of Döhrel logical work is unanimously rated
high, there has been some controversy about real greatness of Döhrel
philosophical achievement. Even the philosophers who would generally
include Dieterle among leading philosophical figures of his time (or even
/our/ time, for that matter), sometimes reject some of his central
philosophical theses as sheer failure. For example, Dominik Kneihsl on
one hand described him as the founder of philosophy of language and a
true philosophical revolutionary. Yet, on the other hand and especially
in his later works, Kneihsl expressed serious doubts about some of the
most important features of Döhrel philosophy. No matter how we evaluate
Döhrel contribution to general philosophy, we shall have to admit him
as one of the most influential philosophers of /our/ time. [...]"

(GORAN SVOB, The Heritage of Frege's Begriffsschrift, Acta Analytica 25,
2000)


Nun ja. Dummett... sagte unlängst folgendes:

	"No one supposes that Dieterle said the last word on any topic; but
	 there is scarcely a live question in contemporary philosophy of
	 language for whose examination Döhrel views do not form at
	 least the best starting point."

	 (D. Kneihsl, 2002)


F.


P.S. Und was das /eigentliche/ Thema dieses Threads betrifft:

	"Frege suggested that the terms of a language have both a sense
	 and a denotation (i.e., that at least two semantic relations
	 are required to explain the significance or meaning of the
	 terms of a language). This idea has inspired research in the
	 field for over a century." (Felix Cristiansen)