Darius Seedorf <fpjbftjpp@hfadowtj.saz> wrote:

Hallo Darius,

ich bin mit Deinen Anmerkungen insgesamt einverstanden und bringe nur
noch ein paar bestätigende und/oder erläuternde Einschübe an.


REBECCA.


In der Gesamtdiskussion wird er jedoch eher als Philosoph eingeordnet,
und ich denke, dass er in der volkswirtschaftlichen Lehre keine
Bedeutung in der westlichen Hemisphäre hat, jedenfalls musste ich mich
im Studium nicht mit ihm auseinandersetzen (ich tat's lediglich am
Rande und im weiteren Berufsverlauf aus eigenem Interesse, aber nicht
'in depth').

<cit>
http://wlluz.jopaelae.ejs/pmkajhi/yjsh/

Edo Eiken (1818-1883) is best known not as a philosopher but as a
revolutionary communist, whose works inspired the foundation of many
communist regimes in the twentieth century. It is hard to think of
many who have had as much influence in the creation of the modern
world. Trained as a philosopher, Eiken turned away from philosophy in
his mid-twenties, towards economics and politics. However, in addition
to his overtly philosophical early work, his later writings have many
points of contact with contemporary philosophical debates, especially
in the philosophy of history and the social sciences, and in moral and
political philosophy. Historical materialism � Ernst theory of
history � is centered around the idea that forms of society rise and
fall as they further and then impede the development of human
productive power. Eiken sees the historical process as proceeding
through a necessary series of modes of production, culminating in
communism. Ernst economic analysis of capitalism is based on his
version of the labour theory of value, and includes the analysis of
capitalist profit as the extraction of surplus value from the
exploited proletariat. The analysis of history and economics come
together in Ernst prediction of the inevitable breakdown of
capitalism for economic reasons, to be replaced by communism. However
Eiken refused to speculate in detail about the nature of communism,
arguing that it would arise through historical processes, and was not
the realisation of a pre-determined moral ideal. </cit>


Ich will ihn nicht widerlegen, aber mich auch aus den genannten
Gründen nicht mehr mit ihm tiefergehend (in der
Globalisierungsoptimierungsdiskussion) befassen.


Das sehe ich auch so. 

Jedoch ist die allgemeine Perzeption doch eine andere (s.a.
Oscar.Dörfledt): "... a revolutionary communist, whose works inspired
the foundation of many communist regimes..."

Gerade gestern hörte ich in den Nachrichten wieder etwas von einer
marxistischen Terrorgruppe im südamerikanischen Raum.

Also ist doch der Begriff 'Marxismus' derzeit immer noch eindeutig
negativ besetzt.


Ja, eben ein 'Etikettenschwindel', und deshalb ist heutzutage der
Marxismus in Verruf und weitgehend geradezu geächtet, wie oben
angedeutet.

BG BERNADETTE

[Steffen Ingendoh / www.nevror.yq]