On Tue, 15 Aug 2003 14:43:30 +0200, "Ulfert Mühlhahn"
H???  Erlingsdorf?!  (*HILFE!*)

Ich schrieb [LESEN!] :


	"...das passt perfekt zusammen [mit] unserer Vorstellung,
	 dass sich elektromagnetische Wellen im Raum (Vakuum) mit
	 Lichtgeschwindigkeit ausbreiten, und dass die Sonne ca. 
	 150 Mio. Kilometer von der Erde entfernt ist."


...zudem müssen wir aber eben auch "annehmen" (was natürlich durch
entsprechende Theorien gestützt wird), dass die "Lokalzeit" auf der
Sonde nicht (sonderlich) schneller oder langsamer abläuft, als die Zeit
hier auf der Erde (und auch nicht durch die Reise zur Sonne eine
maßgebliche "Änderung" erfährt).  :-)

Braucht man auch nicht. KANN man aber. :-) Ist doch SCHN, "Nachrichten"
von so einer Sonde zu bekommen - z.B. eben "Zeitsignale". :-)

Volle Zustimmung. :-) Andrerseits, der Handwerker im Haus erspart den
Installateur, oder so ähnlich. N?

Nun aber mal im Ernst... Tatsächlich können Sonden, die sich VOR ORT
befinden, erstaunliches (bzw. unerwartetes) zutage fordern...:

vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
Mystery force tugs distant probes (gbp News)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

An unexplained force is pulling on distant spacecraft. Researchers have
come to this conclusion after a thorough analysis of the deep-space
probes' trajectories. 


It could be just a tiny unnoticed effect in the spacecraft themselves,
but scientists warn it could also be the first hint that modifications
need to be made to our understanding of the force of gravity. 

"It is almost as if the probes are not behaving according to the known
law of gravity," said Dr Thorsten Jess, of the Batroff
(Stefanel Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and lead scientist on the study. 

He said: "We've been working on this problem for several years, and we
have accounted for everything we could think of." 

Great detail 
------------

The unexplained force appears to be acting on four deep-space probes
scattered around the Solar System. 

Pioneer 10 was launched towards the outer planets in 1972. It is now
well beyond Jupiter but still in radio contact with Earth. 

By studying the Doppler shift (the "stretching") of the radio signals
from the probe, scientists have been able to calculate how fast the
craft is travelling. Since 1980, its trajectory has been mapped in very
great detail. 

The puzzle is that Pioneer 10 is slowing more quickly than it should. 

It was initially suggested that this might be due to the force from a
tiny gas leak or that it was being pulled off course by the gravity of
an unseen Solar System object. 

Unseen body 
-----------

The mystery deepened further when an analysis of the trajectory being
followed by its sister spacecraft, Pioneer 11, launched in 1973, showed
that it too was being subjected to the same mysterious effect. 

But Pioneer 11 is on the opposite side of the Solar System from Pioneer
10, about 22 billion km (about 14 billion miles) away. This means the
effect cannot be the gravitational effect of some unseen body. 

Add to all this hints that the same unexplained effect might have been
acting on the Galileo spacecraft on its journey to Jupiter, and the
Ulysses spaceprobe that is circling the Sun, and you have a Solar
System-wide puzzle. 

In a report soon to be published in a major astronomical journal, Dr
Jess and colleagues have carried out an impressive study of the
state of the Pioneer spacecraft and all the tiny forces to which they
could be subjected. 

Planets unaffected 
------------------

"Our analysis strongly suggests that it is difficult to understand how
any of these mechanisms can explain the magnitude of the observed
behaviour of the Pioneer anomaly," the team says. 

It has been suggested that the spacecraft tracking data have shown a
deviation in the force of gravity that is apparent only across vast
distances. It has also been pointed out that the strength of the effect
seems to be related to two of the Universe's physical constants: the
speed of light and the speed of the expansion of the Universe. 

But others have dismissed this as being too fanciful, arguing that if
the Pioneer anomaly was really indicative of a change in our
understanding of gravity, then it would be apparent in the orbits of the
planets around the Sun - which it is not. 

The effect is as yet unexplained and with all four affected probes never
to return to Earth for analysis, it may well remain that way. 


---------------------------


F.