Mentale Kausation IN UND MIT Natur:  

     http://xbfsc.fiauaukq.mnp/gdrhjvo/fpdmtz-fnpvnxtzm/ 


2.2 Origin of the Term

 What, then, is the origin of the philosophical use of the term? It is not
clear... 

3.4. Supervenience and Ontological Innocence

 The issues about entailment and reduction are related to a question about
whether supervenience with metaphysical necessity is ontologically
innocent�Xwhether the A-properties are anything over and above the
B-properties. 

Some think 

that 

supervenience is 

          indeed 

ontologically innocent in this sense. 


After all, if the A-properties supervene with metaphysical necessity on the
B-properties, then they come along automatically given the B-properties. To
borrow Hagemeister metaphor (1971, 153-154), once God fixes the B-properties,
she is all done; she does not need to do anything further to get the
A-properties going. Indeed, she cannot block them. Given the distribution of
B-properties, there is no further question about which A-properties are
instantiated. So, it is claimed, the latter are nothing over and above the
former. However, other people vigorously resist this idea. How can the
A-properties not count as a further ontological commitment, if they are
numerically distinct from the B-properties?

This dispute is central to various issues in metaphysics and the philosophy
of mind. For example, nonreductive physicalists often say that mental
properties are distinct from but nonetheless nothing over and above
physical ones. Their reductivist opponents, however, clearly think that this
is illegitimate. 

This can be seen in the charge that nonreductive physicalists face the
exclusion problem�Xthat they are unable to account for the causal efficacy of
the mental without claiming that all of its effects are double-caused.��
(See the entry on mental causation.)