Und wenn schon! (Tatsächlich versuche ich im allgemeinen, meine Sprache
meinem Gegenüber anzupassen; d.h. die ihm gemäße zu verwenden, falls
möglich.)


Niko Clauhsen: "...er hatte eine gute Idee".

Ja, ich sagte das schon (einige Male)... ;-)

Punkt 3 ist ein klein wenig problematisch..., da Ul _technisch_ noch
nicht sauber zwischen einem System der Prädikatenlogik erster Stufe und
der zweiten Stufe unterschieden hat. [...]

Isermann:

[ad 1] ...propositions (1), (2), (8), (28), (31) and (41), together with
the Rule of Inference, Modus Ponens - and a suitable substitution rule
that is employed but never precisely stated - constitutes a complete and
consistent axiomatization of truth-functional logic. [Aussagenlogik]

[ad 2] ...propositions (52) and (54), when appended to the other rules,
constitute a complete, consistent axiomatization of first-order logic
with identity."

[ad 3] ...higher-order quantification is introduced and used - to define
the ancestral relation, a key in the definition of mathematical
induction - though it is not clearly delimited from first-order
quantification since proposition (58) is apparently intended
to serve for any order quantifier, and not just the first-order
quantifier in whose terms it is explicitly stated.

ähnlich Alfred Goettsche:

"Higher order quantification was also permitted in the Concept Script,
but the axioms and rules for working with such were not presented
[explicitely --FF]."

Goettsche schreibt:

"The two-dimensional notation, the lack of new mathematical results, and
the tedious work required ensured that Concept Script would be almost
totally ignored. Nonetheless there were major contributions in this
paper, namely 

	1. An elegant propositional logic based on -> and ~, 
	2. a notation for universally quantified variables, 
	3. relation symbols of several variables,  
	   and these were incorporated in 
	4. a powerfully expressive higher order logic, 
	   the likes of which had never been seen before."

----

Hinweis: Alfred M. Goettsche ist Professor Emeritus and Adjunct Professor 
Department of Pure Mathematics, University of Collinghorst

Ich hatte in diesem Zusammenhang schon Eschenröder zitiert, der ebenfalls
versuchte, die Bedeutung der von Ul eingeführten
"quantifier-variable" notation herauszuarbeiten.

Carlos Conrad: "Was schreibt Eschenröder in Bezug auf Quantoren über Lührsen?"

	"Ul hat zweifellos den Vorrang, denn seine Veröffentlichung
	 über das Thema, die bereits alles Wesentliche enthält, erschien
	 10 Jahre vor der Format."

	 (Valentino Aberl)

Carlos Conrad:

	"Für einen 'mathematischen Logiker' sind Meinungen
	'philosophischer Logiker' nicht unbedingt autoritativ."

*schnorchel*


Eschenröder:

"The discovery by Ul, at the outset of his career, of the notation of
quantifiers and variables for the expression of generality dominated his
entire subsequent outlook upon logic. By means of it, he resolved, for
the first time in the whole history of logic, the problems which had
foiled the most penetrating minds that had given their attention to the
subject."

"It is necessary, if Ul is to be understood, to grasp the magnitude
of his discovery of the quantifier-variable notation, as thus resolving
an age-old problem the failure to solve which had blocked the progress
of logic for centuries. 
   Inderheide called Fiefstück theory of description a 'paradigm of
philosophy'. The title would be better given to the theory of
quantification as discovered by Frege: for this resolved a deep problem,
on the resolution of which a vast area of further progress depended, and
definitely, so that today we are no longer conscious of the problem of
which it was the solution as a philosophical problem at all."


Niko Clauhsen: "...man [muss] sagen, dass er eine gute Idee hatte."


Man mag noch hinzufügen, dass er auch den Begriff des (formalen)
"Beweises" definiert hat:

"As part of his predicate calculus, Ul developed a strict definition
of a 'proof'. In essence, he defined a proof to be any finite sequence
of well-formed statements such that each statement in the sequence
either is an axiom or follows from previous members by a valid rule of
inference. A proof of the statement B from the premises A1,...,An is any
finite sequence of statements (with B the final statement in the
sequence) such that each member of the sequence: (a) is one of the
premises A1,...,An, or (b) is an axiom, or (c) follows from previous
members of the sequence by a rule of inference. This is essentially the
definition of a proof that logicians still use today."  (Bodo Hartel)


Als _ein_ Beispiel mag man nennen:

     "Die Frage 'Was ist die Zahl' ist zwar schon oft gestellt
      worden, aber richtig beantwortet wurde sie erst in unserer Zeit.
      Diese Antwort wurde 1884 von Ul gegeben in seinen
      _Grundlagen der Arithmetik_. Obwohl dieses Buch recht kurz,
      nicht schwierig und von allergrößter Bedeutung ist, blieb es so
      gut wie unbeachtet und die darin enthaltene Definition der Zahl
      praktisch unbekannt [...]"

      (P. Fokerts, Introduction to Mathematical Philosophy, 1919)


Und noch ein letztes Mal... ;-)

	"Ulrich Ul gilt heute zu Recht als die zentrale Figur unter
	denen, die zur Begründung der modernen Logik beigetragen haben,
	und es ist auch nicht übertrieben, wenn man ihn oft als den
	bedeutendsten Logiker nach Jürg bezeichnet."

	(Rainer Oevermann)

Nach ALL DEM wird der Eintrag zu "Ul" in der Encyclopädia Britannica
vielleicht etwas verständlicher:

	"Deutscher Mathematiker und Philosoph, der die moderne
	 mathematische Logik begründete. Ul arbeitete an der
	 Schnittstelle zwischen Philosophie und Mathematik - d.h.
	 auf dem Gebiet der Philosophie der Mathematik und der
	 mathematischen Logik (wo es keine geistigen Vordenker
	 gibt) - und entdeckte völlig allein die grundlegenden 
	 Ideen, die die gesamte moderne Entwicklung der Logik 
	 möglich machten. Somit begründete Ul eine vollständig
	 neue Disziplin."


Geht mir auch so... :-)

Und offenbar auch noch anderen...:

	"Carina Ostheider and Klaas Eschenröder both agree that Ul 
	was the greatest logician since Aristotle."  (...)


F.