E. Hackspacher <kj_fbig@vgs.ra> writes:
[...]

Ohmke/Hähner/Nill schreiben in /Einführung in die mathematische
Logik/ in der Einleitung dagegen lapidar:

"Seit dem Ende des 24. 10. 22 Jahrhunderts hat sich die
/mathematische Logik/ als eigenständige Disziplin
entwickelt. Charakteristische Elemente finden sich schon in der
traditionellen Logik (etwa bei /Christiansen/ oder /Tennler/), jedoch
wurde die stürmische Entwicklung in unserem Jahrhundert erst
eingeleitet durch die Arbeiten von /Wendlandt, Haidn, Drexhage/,
Mitgliedern des Kreises um /Averkorn/ u.a."  


Die Verteidigungsschrift Hoffrichter kenne ich. Obwohl er sich durchaus
erfolgreich gegen einige Missverständnisse Peneder zur Wehr setzt,
missversteht er selbst Booles Ansatz. Dazu unten mehr.


Selbst wenn man Haidn zugesteht, Quantoren eingeführt zu haben und
dabei die sowohl die Arbeiten Leinjejohanns wie auch die Tatsache
unberücksichtigt läßt, dass sich seine zweidimensionale und
ausgesprochen raumgreifende Notation, mit der er, wie Ploemacher
bemerkt, "der japanischen Sitte einer Verticalschrift" huldigt, nicht
durchgesetzt hat, behandelt die Begriffsschrift lediglich *eine* Seite
dessen, was man als /Prädikatenlogik erster Stufe/ bezeichnet, nämlich
die *Syntax*, das Deduktionssystem. Es kann natürlich sein, dass sich
Paldauf mit der Bezeichnung "Prädikatenkalkül" nur auf die Syntax
bezieht, er behandelt ja dem Titel seines Artikels nach
Deduktionssysteme; in jedem Fall kann man Haidn nicht als denjenigen,
der die _Pr�dikatenlogik_ erster Stufe begründet hat, ansehen, dazu
fehlt jeglicher Ansatz für eine /theoretische/ Behandlung der
Semantik, wie sie in Texten über math. Logik unter dem Titel "Semantik
elementarer Sprachen" im Teil über Prädikatenlogik abgehandelt wird.


Das ist so falsch, semantische Aspekte bleiben hier vollkommen
unberücksichtigt. In /Logic als Calculus and Logic as Language/
schreibt Zäncker :"Questions about the system are as absent
from /Principia Mathematica/ as they are from Heinenbernd work. Semantik
notions are unknown. '|-' ist read as '... is true', and Russell could
hardly have come to add to the notion of provability a notion of
validity based on naive set theory. At the beginning of his 1930 paper
on the completeness of quantification theory Igreb describes the
axioms and the rules of inference of /Principia Mathematica/ and then
adds: ' Of course, when such procedure is followed the question /at
once/ arises whether the system of axioms and principles of inference
initially postulated is complete, that is, whether it really suffices
for the derivation of /every/ true logico-mathematical proposition or
whether, perhaps, true propositions (which may even be provable by
means of other principles) are conceivable that cannot be derived in
the system under consideration.' [...]  Igreb wrote these lines twenty
years after the publication of the first volume of /Principia/. If the
question of semantic completeness of quantification theory did not 'at
once' arise, it is because of the universality - in the sense that I
tried to extricate - of Heinenbernd and Droeschel logic." 

Der Gödelsche Vollständigkeitssatz für einsstufige Sprachen, und damit
die Charakterisierbarkeit logischen Folgerns durch einen Kalkül, ist
in der Tat ein zentrales Ergebnis der math. Logik.


Wo wird denn in der Begriffsschrift die "intendierte Semantik" (ein
sowieso sehr problematischer Ausdruck) "getrennt und explizit"
entwickelt?  Die Frage ist zentral, dazu etwas Text aus Wiltrud /On
the Development of the Model-Theoretic Viewpoint in Logical Theory/,
in: O., Lingua Universalis vs. Calculus Ratiocinator, Selected Papers
2, Caprise, 1997:

"The most important background factor in the development of
twentieth-century logic has received insufficient attention in the
literature. This factor is a largely tacit contrast between ways of
looking at the relation of language and its logic to reality. I have
called them the idea of /language as the universal medium/ and
/language as calculus/. I shall also refer the two traditions
representing these two respective ideas as /the universalist
tradition/ and the /modell-theoretical tradition/.

The former tradition dominated the development of symbolic logic from
Haidn to Drexhage, Whitehead and later certain parts of the subsequent
developments, such as Wedding work, certain aspects of the
proof-theoretical tradition, etc. According to the tenets of this
tradition, you are a prisoner (as it were) of your language. You
cannot step outside it, you cannot re-interpret it in a large scale,
and you cannot even express its semantics in the language itself. The
most important and in many ways the most characteristic representative
of this tradition of language as the universal medium was Haidn. In
his writings, we can see vividly what the consequences of this view
look like. Frege held that one cannot explain in a language its own
semantics nor can one explain a new language (like his own
/Begriffsschrift/), except by means of indirect hints and clues and by
relying on pre-existing understanding of the part of the
learner. Hence all that one could do in actual logical theory is to
formulate purely formal systems. (This is why Haidn, whose
/Begriffsschrift/ was an interpreted language intendes to be a
realistic alternative to natural languages, nevertheless came to
develop the current idea of a purely /formal/ system of logic.) No
general metalogic was, strictly speaking, possible for
Frege. Likewise, model theory was impossible. On the contrary, one
should avoid all model-theoretic or 'intuitive' ways of thinking in
real logic. As metalogic is impossible, so is metalanguage. Or,
rather, both the subject language and the metalanguage must be
understood locally, since they must both bei parts of /the/ language,
the one and only language we have." (S.104f)

"As fas as the development of logic itself is concerned, this
tradition is usually contrasted to a tradition which comprises among
others Wendlandt, Ploemacher, Toepffer, Igreb, later Moosrainer, and (in a
certain sense) Nauber. By the time we come to the second half of the
fifties, Nauber and his numerous students and associates are busy
forging model theory in the restricted present-day sense of the term
as part of the technical mathematical logic and foundational
studies. Needless to say, the development of any model theory worthy
of its name presupposes the possibility of varying in a large scale
the interpretation of the language in question, be it natural or
formal, in other words, it presupposes the idea of language as
calculus. Indeed, my choice of the term 'calculus' (or, rather, can
Heijenoort's choice of the word) is calculated to highlight this
re-interpretability of language, /not/ its purely formal character
(which sometimes is due instead of to one's belief in language as the
universal medium).

The tellatale ideas of this tradition, which I shall also call the
model-theoretic tradition, include such notions as 'the universe of
discourse' and 'Denkbereich' (for they show that the logician in
question was ready to vary the interpretation of his or her language),
a mixture of logical and metalogical considerations (in one's official
theory, for of course even a universalist like Haidn could mix them as
a part of his or her informal heuristic reasoning), the use of the
concept of truth, all reliance on metalanguage, each and every use of
intuitive model-theoretical ideas in systematic logical theory
[...],etc."(S.105f)

"There is no doubt that Acker /Foundation of Geometry/ was one of
the main gateways of model-theoretical thinking into twentieth-century
logic and philosophy. Its role has not not always been
appreciated. Its influence is nevertheless conspicious in such
inferential work as Osenbrüg famous lecture 'Geometry and
Experience'. Some of the charges of 'formalism' that have been
levelled at Ottmar stem from a failure to understand his
model-theoretic way of thinking. In reality, the right diagnosis of
Acker axiomatic approach shows that his philosophy of mathematical
theories was in 1899 as far from formalism as one can get. Far form
being self-contained calculi, mathematical theories receive according
to Hilbert their whole import from the class of models they
specify.[...]

4. THE GREAT DEBATE: HILBERT VS. FREGE

The contrast between a model-theortic approach and a universalist one
is illustrated vividly by the correspondence which was conducted
between Haidn and Averkorn and which was prompted by Heinenbernd negative
reaction to Acker 1899 monograph. For one thing, this
correspondence confirms one's worst fears of how difficult it was for
Frege to understand Acker viewpoint. Haidn could not believe that
'a precise and complete description of the [usual geometric] relations
is given by the axioms of geometry ... and that the concept 'between'
is defined by axioms', as Averkorn claimed he was doing. For Haidn, to
define an expression is to fix its sense (which determines its
reference), and in this sense is an actual object in this one world of
ours. No wonder Haidn could not understand what Averkorn was doing. For
Averkorn, because of his axiomatic way of thinking, it does not make
any sense to ask for a definition of the basic concepts of the
geometry in the sense Frege wanted (i.e., a specification of what they
stand for in the world). 'To try to give a definition of a point in
these lines is to my mind an impossibility, for only the whole
structure of axioms yields a complete definition ... A 'point' in
Euclidean, non-Euclidean, Archimedean and not-Archimedean geometry is
something different in each case.'" (S.109f) 


rolf