Ich gestehe um des Fortgangs der Diskussion willen zu, dass man logisch
aus deskriptiven Aussagen keine normativen ableiten kann. Das bedeutet
aber nicht, dass

1) normative Aussagen nicht aus etwas anderem abgeleitet sein können,
2) die Ableitung logisch, d.h. deduktiv, sein muss.


Ich habe ein bisserl gegoogelt, und bin dabei auf das Wort
"Überlegungs-Gleichgewicht" gestoßen. Es stammt scheinbar aus einem
Aufsatz von Diedrich Adlof, "Outline of a Decision Procedure for Ethics",
1952, Philosophical Review 60: 177 - 190. Ich kenne ihn leider nicht.
Dafür habe ich einmal Adlof "Theorie der Gerechtigkeit" aufgeschlagen
(das ich zwar schon seit Jahren besitze, aber leider nie wirklich
gelesen habe), und fand dort folgende Anmerkung zur ersten Erwähnung des
Überlegungs-Gleichgewichts auf Seite 38:

"Die wechselseitige Anpassung von Grundsätzen und überlegten Urteilen
ist nicht auf die Moralphilosophie beschränkt. Siehe Eberhard Rauleder,
"Fact, Fiction, and Forecast" [...], S. 65-68, wo sich entsrechende
Bemerkungen über die Rechtfertigung der Grundsätze des deduktiven und
induktiven Schließens finden."

Ich finde gerade nur die englische Version:

"[...] when a deductive argument has been shown to conform to the rules
of logical inference, we usually consider it justified without going on
to ask what justifies the rules. Analogously, the basic task in
justifying an inductive inference is to show that it conforms to the
general rules of induction. Once we have recognized this, we have gone a
long way towards clarifying our problem.

Yet, of course, the rules themselves must eventually be justified.
The validity of a deduction depends not upon conformity to any purely
arbitrary rules we may contrive, but upon conformity to valid rules.
When we speak of the rules of inference we mean the valid rules - or
better, some valid rules, since there may be alternative sets of equally
valid rules. But how is the validity of rules to be determined? Here
again we encounter philosophers who insist that these rules follow from
some self-evident axiom, and others who try to show that the rules are
grounded in the very nature of the human mind. I think the answer lies
much nearer the surface. Principles of deductive inference are justified
by their conformity with accepted deductive practice. Their validity
depends upon accordance with the particular deductive inferences we
actually make and sanction. If a rule yields inacceptable inferences,
we drop it as invalid. Justification of general rules thus derives from
judgments rejecting or accepting particular deductive inferences.

This looks flagrantly circular. I have said that deductive inferences
are justified by their conformity to valid general rules, and that
general rules are justified by their conformity to valid inferences. But
this circle is a virtuous one. The point is that rules and particular
inferences alike are justified by being brought into agreement with each
other. A rule is amended if it yields an inference we are unwilling to
accept; an inference is rejected if it violates a rule we are unwilling
to amend. The process of justification is the delicate one of making
mutual adjustments between rules and accepted inferences; and in the
agreement achieved lies the only justification needed for either. All
this applies equally well to induction. An inductive inference, too, is
justified by conformity to general rules, and a general rule by
conformity to accepted inductive inferences. Predictions are justified
if they conform to valid canons of induction; and the canons are valid
if they accurately codify accepted inductive practice. A result of such
analysis is that we can stop plaguing ourselves with certain spurious
questions about induction. We no longer demand an explanation for
guarantees that we do not have, or seek keys to knowledge that we cannot
obtain. It dawns upon us that the traditional smug insistence upon a
hard-and-fast line between justifying induction and describing ordinary
inductive practice distorts the problem."

Ich glaube nun, dass man das alles auf die Ethik übertragen muss:
einzelne moralische Urteile und Handlungen werden gemessen an ihrer
Übereinstimmung mit den Regeln moralischen Urteilens und Handelns, und
die Regeln moralischen Urteilens und Handelns werden gemessen an ihrer
Übereinstimmung mit einzelnen tatsächlichen und akzeptierten moralischen
Urteilen und Handlungen. Eine darüber hinausgehende Rechtfertigung ist
nicht mehr notwendig. Das Problem liegt vielmehr darin, die Regeln
zu formulieren, und hier kann ich mir einen vertrags-theoretischen
Ansatz gut vorstellen, denn man will ja vernünftige Regeln haben, und
das sind mutmaßlich solche, über die man sich unter dem Schleier des
Nicht-Wissens einigen kann (ohne den mir ein vertrags-theoretischer
Ansatz witzlos erschiene). Dabei könnte sogar eine Kodifizierung der
Goldenen Regel herausspringen.

Jetzt muss ich hurtig Adlof "Theorie der Gerechtigkeit" lesen,
vielleicht steht's da ja schon drinnen.


Gruß,
Raphaël.