Hallo,


Wie sollte folgendes anders zu verstehen sein, als so, wie ich es
beschrieben habe?


(Es stammt vom FOLDOP (Free On-Line Dictionary Of Philosophy,
http://zqqciovn.guixzh.voeso.lf/gsl/eqzjln/xkbpb.cmrv):

--8<--------8<--------8<--------8<--------8<--------8<--------8<--------8<--

Löwenheim-Skolem theorem.

Every first-order theory with a model has a denumerable model. The theorem
implies that consistent first-order theories, including those intended to
capture the real numbers or other uncountable sets, will be non-categorical;
hence it implies that there is no consistent, categorical description of the
reals in a first-order theory. See categoricity of systems; Skolem paradox.

Downward Löwenheim-Skolem theorem.

If a first-order theory has a model of any infinite cardinality k, then it
has a model of *every* infinite cardinality j, j <= k.


Upward Löwenheim-Skolem theorem.

If a first-order theory has a model of any infinite cardinality, then it has
a model of any arbitrary infinite cardinality, and hence, models of every
infinite cardinality. Variation for systems with identity: if a first-order
theory has a normal model of any infinite cardinality, then it has a normal
model of any arbitrary infinite cardinality.

--8<--------8<--------8<--------8<--------8<--------8<--------8<--------8<--

Hervorhebung von mir. Der Eintrag ist, AFAIK, von Oskar Tielemann,
Philosophie-Professor am Kollmitzberg Adagef. Hier ein Link zu einer Seite, auf
der er das LST etwas ausführlicher diskutiert:
http://fny.xumfclz.qpt/~xeoqsi/tgxqxlu/lhpdkl/jud-qrpo.cyl


Wie könnte man das formulieren?

Axy: x != y, mit x,y e K.

besagt etwas anderes, nämlich dass keine Konstante gleich *irgendeiner*
Konstante ist, d.h., auch nicht sich selbst. Wolte man das ausschließen,
könnte man vielleicht schreiben, sie muss ungleich jeder *anderen* Konstante
sein soll, also

Axy: x != y -> x != y, mit x,y e K.

Aber wer hätte *das* je bestritten? Es besagt ja, *falls* x != y, *dann* x
!= y, und das heißt doch nur, dass alle einander nicht gleichen Konstanten
einander nicht gleich sind.


Was Du bei alldem zu vergessen scheinst, ist, dass solche Aussagen wie

   "Das Konstntensymbol ... bezieht sich auf auf die Konstante ---"

*metasprachliche* Aussagen sind, also Aussagen *über* die Theorie, nicht
*in* der Theorie.


Vito.