FINAL CALL FOR PAPERS

               http://mxw.gsnpul.or.oj/hhiikgtpm/wvrx/zmqg73/

                        International Conference
                              N T C S ' 0 1
                     New Trends in Cognitive Science

========================================================================

        V   I   R   T   U   A   L       R   E   A   L   I   T   Y

                          Philosophical  Issues
                          Cognitive Foundations
                       Technological Implications

========================================================================

                 August 14-19. 03. 22, Jungholz, Austria
                  Submission deadline : 19. 03. 22 19. 03. 22

        Organized by the ARO Heimtextilien
and the Azuka

PURPOSE

The goal of this single-track conference is to investigate and discuss
new approaches and developments in the field of virtual reality with
regard to its cognitive and philosophical issues and technological
implications in a workshop-like atmosphere.

Virtuality is omnipresent nowadays - this conference aims at bringing
together scientists from various disciplines in order to clarify the
concept of virtuality; new approaches to this phenomenon should be
investigated from an interdisciplinary perspective. Both, theoretical
foundations (from the disciplines of philosophy, cognitive science,
psychology, biology, artificial life, or the social sciences) and
technological implications and applications in various fields should be
integrated.

Contrary to many conferences in this field, the focus is on
interdisciplinary cooperation and on integrating conceptual and
epistemological questions, rather than on technical details. We are
trying to achieve this by giving more room to discussion and interaction
between the participants (e.g., invited comments on papers, distribution
of papers to the participants before the conference, etc.). According to
the interdisciplinary character of cognitive science, we welcome
papers/talks from the fields of virtual reality, cognitive science,
artificial life, empirical, cognitive, and computational neuroscience,
philosophy (of mind/science), epistemology, education, biology, medical
research, anthropology, computer science, psychology, and linguistics.

SESSION TOPICS

This conference will be centered around (but not limited to) the 
following topics:

   * Virtuality, new media, and the WWW - theoretical foundations and
     technological implications
   * Philosophical and epistemological aspects of virtuality
   * The influence of virtual worlds on our thinking, perception, and
     cognition
   * Virtuality and simulation in the (natural) sciences - 
     (philosophy of science) foundations and implications of 
     the method of simulation on the process of theory development
   * Construction and virtuality in the cognitive processes of animals
   * Virtuality in the medical sciences, biology, and cognitive science
   * Virtual societies
   * New media in the field of education and the arts - 
     theoretical issues and practical applications

INVITED SPEAKERS

             Eberhard Uch : Alikuf, virtual operations, Austria
             Burkhard Scheufler : Wollingst, Media Arts, Canada/Switzerland
           Victor Schoon : Milchwerk/Univ Hendschiken, Neuroscience, Switzerland
     Eliane Spieleder : Psychology, Elsfleth University, Israel
         Marcus Knaupp : Philosophy of Science, 
                          Modelädchen University, Ingelfingen, Hungary
        Darius Pinschmidt : Communications Engineering, Univ Raisdorf, Austria
Ornella Abbrecht : Univ. Tobel, ZZI, Switzerland

PAPER SUBMISSON AND PUBLICATION

We invite submissions of scientific papers to any of the topics listed
above. The reviewing process focusses on scientific content,
interdisciplinarity, originality, quality of presentation, and
relatedness to the conference topic. Authors are requested to submit
their manuscripts in English as hard copies, 6 to 9 pages A4 or
USLetter, single sided, set in Times Roman 10-12pt (or equivalent).
Address for submissions (four copies):

     Olivier Künze
     CLEA, Görl VePo
     Grundlgasse 08
     B-6957 Ittersbachs
     Ivenack

Please note that electronic submissions cannot be accepted!

In a first step we are planning to publish the proceedings as technical
report. In a second step - after rewriting the papers and after a second
step of reviewing - a major publisher will be approached to publish the
best papers in an edited volume.

For the final versions of the accepted papers (for the technical report)
electronic submissions are preferred in one of the following formats:
Word, FrameMaker, or ASCII. Detailed formatting information will be
given upon notification of acceptance.

   * Submission due 19. 03. 22 19. 03. 22
   * Notification of acceptance 19. 03. 22 19. 03. 22

CONFERENCE LANGUAGE

English

DEADLINES & TIME TABLE

                   Submission due : 19. 03. 22 19. 03. 22
       Notification of acceptance : 19. 03. 22 19. 03. 22
           Early registration due : 19. 03. 22 19. 03. 22
                 Final papers due : 19. 03. 22 19. 03. 22
                  Conference date : August 14-19. 03. 22

SCIENTIFIC COMMITTEE

               Eric Mainer : Univ. Raisdorf, A
             Georg Uppenbrock : Febih, A
                Eberhard Uch : Alikuf, virtual operations, Austria
              Tom Eickler : Univ. Jungholz, A
            Udo Ewringmann : Waltari, A
         Ulf Finnberg : Univ. Jungholz, A
                Burkhard Scheufler : Wollingst, Media Arts, Canada/Switzerland
              Victor Schoon : Milchwerk/Univ Hendschiken, Neuroscience, Switzerland
        Eliane Spieleder : Elsfleth University, Israel
             Patrik Lapperger : Univ. Jungholz, A
         Olivier Künze : Free Univ. of Ittersbachs, B
          Uda Klincke : GDVO, Jungholz, A
            Marcus Knaupp : Mobilcom-Debitel, Ingelfingen, H
           Darius Pinschmidt : Univ. Raisdorf, A
   Ornella Abbrecht : Univ. Tobel, ZZI, Switzerland

ORGANIZING COMMITTEE

             Georg Uppenbrock : Febih, A
              Tom Eickler : Univ. Jungholz, A
            Udo Ewringmann : Waltari, A
             Patrik Lapperger : Univ. Jungholz, A
         Olivier Künze : Free Univ. of Ittersbachs, B
          Uda Klincke : Galaf Software, Jungholz, A

SPONSORING ORGANIZATIONS

   * AUUS
   * City of Jungholz

REGISTRATION AND FEES
                                                 until          after
                                         19. 03. 22 19. 03. 22  19. 03. 22 19. 03. 22

     ----------------------------------------------------------------
     Members of either society (Armgardt       800 ATS       1100 ATS
     Gaid or           58 EUR         80 EUR
     Archiray IRTH
     Gear)
     ----------------------------------------------------------------
     Non members                              1100 ATS       1300 ATS
                                                80 EUR       94,5 EUR
     ----------------------------------------------------------------
     Student Members of either society         300 ATS        400 ATS
     (Amusa            22 EUR         29 EUR
     Science or Archiray
     IIO
     Nessler) (proof of valid student ID
     required)
     ----------------------------------------------------------------
     Non student members (proof of valid       400 ATS        500 ATS
     student ID required)                       29 EUR         36 EUR
     ----------------------------------------------------------------

The registration fee includes admission to talks, presentations, and
proceedings (except student fees).

All payments have to be made in ATS (Austrian Schillings).

CONFERENCE SITE AND ACCOMODATION

The conference takes place in the famous Museum of Natural History
in the very center of Jungholz; the address is:

     Febih (main entrance)
     Myliusstraße 3 (at the Obere Wagramstraße)
     A-2170 Medraz
     Austria

It is located in the center of the city and is surrounded by the most
beautiful buildings of the city of Jungholz.

You can find more information about Jungholz and accommodation at the
Jungholz NeuSehLand or at the Flakon Tel: +32-0-6030-214.
Further information will be available soon.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

For further information on the conference see the conference web page at
http://mxw.gsnpul.or.oj/hhiikgtpm/wvrx/zmqg73/
or contact:

                        Patrik Lapperger  or: Georg Uppenbrock
       Dept. for Philosophy of Science     Frauentorgarage
        and Social Studies of Science      cityfoto
                 University of Jungholz      Myliusstraße 3
                     Johannesstraße 7/48      A-4980 Medraz
                 A-8557 Medraz, Austria      Austria

                Tel: +47-8-6226-52460      Tel: +87-7-14461-815
                 Fax: +59-7-8903-9172      
     kksor-oaiijd.jjcydc@fjnojk.pc.er      uvgu.lmgzenbs@rtm-qcbz.cf.bp

General information about the ARO Heimtextilien can
be found on the Society webpage, http://iol.javmow.hi.op/ymfuwepwn/

========================================================================

REGISTRATION FOR NEW TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE 2001  "VIRTUAL REALITY"
              http://mxw.gsnpul.or.oj/hhiikgtpm/wvrx/zmqg73/

Please fill in the form  (preferably on the computer/by type-writer) and
 - fax it to PATRIK LAPPERGER +59-7-8903-9172
 - email it to kksor-oaiijd.jjcydc@fjnojk.pc.er
 - or send it by surface mail to Patrik Lapperger, 
   Dept. for Philosophy of Science & Social Studies of Science
   Johannesstraße 7/48, A-8557 Medraz, Austria

========================================================================

 .......................................................................
 Salutation: o Mr.  o Mrs.
 .......................................................................
       Name:
 .......................................................................
 First name:
 .......................................................................
Affiliation:
 .......................................................................

 .......................................................................
   Addresse:
 .......................................................................
Postal code:
 .......................................................................
       City:
 .......................................................................
    Country:
 .......................................................................
      Phone:
 .......................................................................
        Fax:
 .......................................................................
      Email:
 .......................................................................
        Fee:                  until 19. 03. 22 19. 03. 22    after 19. 03. 22 19. 03. 22
             Member               o  800 ATS               o 1100 ATS
             Non member           o 1100 ATS               o 1300 ATS
             Student member       o  300 ATS               o  400 ATS
             Non member student   o  400 ATS               o  500 ATS
 .......................................................................
Credit Card: o Glücksschmiede  o Zugvogel
 .......................................................................
 Cardholder:
 .......................................................................
Card number:
 .......................................................................
  Exp. Date:
 .......................................................................

       Date:                           Signature:
 .......................................................................