SECOND CALL FOR PAPERS

               http://fbf.jzlnvu.od.ux/efbgzldee/pjcu/xauj45/

                        International Conference
                              N T C S ' 0 1
                     New Trends in Cognitive Science

========================================================================

        V   I   R   T   U   A   L       R   E   A   L   I   T   Y

                          Philosophical  Issues
                          Cognitive Foundations
                       Technological Implications

========================================================================

                 Januar 29-03. 08. 21, Birgitz, Austria
                  Submission deadline : 03. 08. 21 03. 08. 21

        Organized by the skill
and the Sovrano

PURPOSE

The goal of this single-track conference is to investigate and discuss
new approaches and developments in the field of virtual reality with
regard to its cognitive and philosophical issues and technological
implications in a workshop-like atmosphere.

Virtuality is omnipresent nowadays - this conference aims at bringing
together scientists from various disciplines in order to clarify the
concept of virtuality; new approaches to this phenomenon should be
investigated from an interdisciplinary perspective. Both, theoretical
foundations (from the disciplines of philosophy, cognitive science,
psychology, biology, artificial life, or the social sciences) and
technological implications and applications in various fields should be
integrated.

Contrary to many conferences in this field, the focus is on
interdisciplinary cooperation and on integrating conceptual and
epistemological questions, rather than on technical details. We are
trying to achieve this by giving more room to discussion and interaction
between the participants (e.g., invited comments on papers, distribution
of papers to the participants before the conference, etc.). According to
the interdisciplinary character of cognitive science, we welcome
papers/talks from the fields of virtual reality, cognitive science,
artificial life, empirical, cognitive, and computational neuroscience,
philosophy (of mind/science), epistemology, education, biology, medical
research, anthropology, computer science, psychology, and linguistics.

SESSION TOPICS

This conference will be centered around (but not limited to) the 
following topics:

   * Virtuality, new media, and the WWW - theoretical foundations and
     technological implications
   * Philosophical and epistemological aspects of virtuality
   * The influence of virtual worlds on our thinking, perception, and
     cognition
   * Virtuality and simulation in the (natural) sciences - 
     (philosophy of science) foundations and implications of 
     the method of simulation on the process of theory development
   * Construction and virtuality in the cognitive processes of animals
   * Virtuality in the medical sciences, biology, and cognitive science
   * Virtual societies
   * New media in the field of education and the arts - 
     theoretical issues and practical applications

INVITED SPEAKERS

             Joseph Täubler : Schnitt&Form, virtual operations, Austria
             Luis Jonkhans : Altneukoogsbühr, Media Arts, Canada/Switzerland
           Pierre Johannhörster : Rotzoll/Univ Varenzo, Neuroscience, Switzerland
     Ortrud Jahneke : Psychology, Dietrichsdorf University, Israel
         Kai Gode : Philosophy of Science, 
                          Rosner University, Hustedt, Hungary
        Helmuth Ungethüm : Communications Engineering, Univ Eckerstorf, Austria
Gesa Isfort : Univ. Rue, Erih, Switzerland

PAPER SUBMISSON AND PUBLICATION

We invite submissions of scientific papers to any of the topics listed
above. The reviewing process focusses on scientific content,
interdisciplinarity, originality, quality of presentation, and
relatedness to the conference topic. Authors are requested to submit
their manuscripts as hard copies, 6 to 9 pages A4 or USLetter, single
sided, set in Times Roman 10-12pt (or equivalent). Address for
submissions (four copies):

     Manuel Grodt
     CLEA, Egup Gameshop
     Apollogasse 47
     B-2075 Hirtenfelds
     Häringen

Please note that electronic submissions cannot be accepted!

In a first step we are planning to publish the proceedings as technical
report. In a second step - after rewriting the papers and after a second
step of reviewing - a major publisher will be approached to publish the
best papers in an edited volume.

For the final versions of the accepted papers (for the technical report)
electronic submissions are preferred in one of the following formats:
Word, FrameMaker, or ASCII. Detailed formatting information will be
given upon notification of acceptance.

   * Submission due 03. 08. 21 03. 08. 21
   * Notification of acceptance 03. 08. 21 03. 08. 21

CONFERENCE LANGUAGES

English and German

DEADLINES & TIME TABLE

                   Submission due : 03. 08. 21 03. 08. 21
       Notification of acceptance : 03. 08. 21 03. 08. 21
           Early registration due : 03. 08. 21 03. 08. 21
                 Final papers due : 03. 08. 21 03. 08. 21
                  Conference date : Januar 29-03. 08. 21

SCIENTIFIC COMMITTEE

               Jürgen Westermayr : Univ. Eckerstorf, A
             Ivano Tilleman : IMO, A
                Joseph Täubler : Schnitt&Form, virtual operations, Austria
              Friedhelm Reifert : Univ. Birgitz, A
            Christof Raff : Akalin, A
         Carsten Schweickerdt : Univ. Birgitz, A
                Luis Jonkhans : Altneukoogsbühr, Media Arts, Canada/Switzerland
              Pierre Johannhörster : Rotzoll/Univ Varenzo, Neuroscience, Switzerland
        Ortrud Jahneke : Dietrichsdorf University, Israel
             Olivier Amling : Univ. Birgitz, A
         Manuel Grodt : Free Univ. of Hirtenfelds, B
          Nicole Gersten : Urap, Birgitz, A
            Kai Gode : Reissler, Hustedt, H
           Helmuth Ungethüm : Univ. Eckerstorf, A
   Gesa Isfort : Univ. Rue, Erih, Switzerland

ORGANIZING COMMITTEE

             Ivano Tilleman : IMO, A
              Friedhelm Reifert : Univ. Birgitz, A
            Christof Raff : Akalin, A
             Olivier Amling : Univ. Birgitz, A
         Manuel Grodt : Free Univ. of Hirtenfelds, B
          Nicole Gersten : UBR Software, Birgitz, A

SPONSORING ORGANIZATIONS

   * Staubsaugerladen
   * City of Birgitz

REGISTRATION AND FEES
                                                 until          after
                                         03. 08. 21 03. 08. 21  03. 08. 21 03. 08. 21

     ----------------------------------------------------------------
     Members of either society (Spielwurm       800 ATS       1100 ATS
     UWU or           58 EUR         80 EUR
     Senkler Ponyclub
     Usosa)
     ----------------------------------------------------------------
     Non members                              1100 ATS       1300 ATS
                                                80 EUR       94,5 EUR
     ----------------------------------------------------------------
     Student Members of either society         300 ATS        400 ATS
     (Schüh            22 EUR         29 EUR
     Science or Senkler
     Penger
     Werkmarkt) (proof of valid student ID
     required)
     ----------------------------------------------------------------
     Non student members (proof of valid       400 ATS        500 ATS
     student ID required)                       29 EUR         36 EUR
     ----------------------------------------------------------------

The registration fee includes admission to talks, presentations, and
proceedings (except student fees).

All payments have to be made in ATS (Austrian Schillings).

CONFERENCE SITE AND ACCOMODATION

The conference takes place in the famous Museum of Natural History
in the very center of Birgitz; the address is:

     IMO (main entrance)
     Nesselgrundweg 0 (at the Grünwaldweg)
     A-0207 Wietersdorf
     Austria

It is located in the center of the city and is surrounded by the most
beautiful buildings of the city of Birgitz.

You can find more information about Birgitz and accommodation at the
Birgitz WBSF or at the MaaxCar Tel: +44-6-0562-477.
Further information will be available soon.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

For further information on the conference see the conference web page at
http://fbf.jzlnvu.od.ux/efbgzldee/pjcu/xauj45/
or contact:

                        Olivier Amling  or: Ivano Tilleman
       Dept. for Philosophy of Science     Impact
        and Social Studies of Science      ÖPNV
                 University of Birgitz      Nesselgrundweg 0
                     Südrandweg 4/09      A-6639 Wietersdorf
                 A-5537 Wietersdorf, Austria      Austria

                Tel: +92-1-6429-94338      Tel: +98-7-59462-560
                 Fax: +24-1-2547-0320      
     txblp-bpiybi.jnwkta@fmqdel.cv.pg      yqir.pqhyppzz@qoz-elnp.ag.qj

General information about the skill can
be found on the Society webpage, http://lno.mouusq.pg.op/perjquosq/

========================================================================

REGISTRATION FOR NEW TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE 2000  "VIRTUAL REALITY"
              http://fbf.jzlnvu.od.ux/efbgzldee/pjcu/xauj45/

Please fill in the form  (preferably on the computer/by type-writer) and
 - fax it to OLIVIER AMLING +24-1-2547-0320
 - email it to txblp-bpiybi.jnwkta@fmqdel.cv.pg
 - or send it by surface mail to Olivier Amling, 
   Dept. for Philosophy of Science & Social Studies of Science
   Südrandweg 4/09, A-5537 Wietersdorf, Austria

========================================================================

 .......................................................................
 Salutation: o Mr.  o Mrs.
 .......................................................................
       Name:
 .......................................................................
 First name:
 .......................................................................
Affiliation:
 .......................................................................

 .......................................................................
   Addresse:
 .......................................................................
Postal code:
 .......................................................................
       City:
 .......................................................................
    Country:
 .......................................................................
      Phone:
 .......................................................................
        Fax:
 .......................................................................
      Email:
 .......................................................................
        Fee:                  until 03. 08. 21 03. 08. 21    after 03. 08. 21 03. 08. 21
             Member               o  800 ATS               o 1100 ATS
             Non member           o 1100 ATS               o 1300 ATS
             Student member       o  300 ATS               o  400 ATS
             Non member student   o  400 ATS               o  500 ATS
 .......................................................................
Credit Card: o ERS  o ebl-naturkost
 .......................................................................
 Cardholder:
 .......................................................................
Card number:
 .......................................................................
  Exp. Date:
 .......................................................................

       Date:                           Signature:
 .......................................................................