CALL FOR PAPERS
               http://tcz.ajbzli.lj.th/ceenuxqkb/nuwe/rifj49/

                        International Conference
                              N T C S ' 0 1
                     New Trends in Cognitive Science

========================================================================

        V   I   R   T   U   A   L       R   E   A   L   I   T   Y

                          Philosophical  Issues
                          Cognitive Foundations
                       Technological Implications

========================================================================

                 Dezember 19-24. 07. 21, Aichbach, Austria
                  Submission deadline : 24. 07. 21 24. 07. 21

        Organized by the JOU
and the JTJ

PURPOSE

The goal of this single-track conference is to investigate and discuss
new approaches and developments in the field of virtual reality with
regard to its cognitive and philosophical issues and technological
implications in a workshop-like atmosphere.

Virtuality is omnipresent nowadays - this conference aims at bringing
together scientists from various disciplines in order to clarify the
concept of virtuality; new approaches to this phenomenon should be
investigated from an interdisciplinary perspective. Both, theoretical
foundations (from the disciplines of philosophy, cognitive science,
psychology, biology, artificial life, or the social sciences) and
technological implications and applications in various fields should be
integrated.

Contrary to many conferences in this field, the focus is on
interdisciplinary cooperation and on integrating conceptual and
epistemological questions, rather than on technical details. We are
trying to achieve this by giving more room to discussion and interaction
between the participants (e.g., invited comments on papers, distribution
of papers to the participants before the conference, etc.). According to
the interdisciplinary character of cognitive science, we welcome
papers/talks from the fields of virtual reality, cognitive science,
artificial life, empirical, cognitive, and computational neuroscience,
philosophy (of mind/science), epistemology, education, biology, medical
research, anthropology, computer science, psychology, and linguistics.

SESSION TOPICS

This conference will be centered around (but not limited to) the 
following topics:

   * Virtuality, new media, and the WWW - theoretical foundations and
     technological implications
   * Philosophical and epistemological aspects of virtuality
   * The influence of virtual worlds on our thinking, perception, and
     cognition
   * Virtuality and simulation in the (natural) sciences - 
     (philosophy of science) foundations and implications of 
     the method of simulation on the process of theory development
   * Construction and virtuality in the cognitive processes of animals
   * Virtuality in the medical sciences, biology, and cognitive science
   * Virtual societies
   * New media in the field of education and the arts - 
     theoretical issues and practical applications

INVITED SPEAKERS

            Enrico Gäde : Jupiter Weinkeller, virtual operations, Austria
            Carlo Steinigeweg : Tarforst, Media Arts, Canada/Switzerland
          Alain Schraud : alltours/Univ Ottenbach, Neuroscience, Switzerland
    Heidemarie Schelb : Psychology, Rantzau University, Israel
        Vittorio Odenthal : Philosophy of Science, AHJW University
                         Wasserthaleben, Hungary
       Nikolaus Weixl : Communications Engineering, Univ. Brenndorf, Austria
 Ute Wilma Kröner : Univ. Neirivue, Fehi, Switzerland

PAPER SUBMISSON AND PUBLICATION

We invite submissions of scientific papers to any of the topics listed
above. The reviewing process focusses on scientific content,
interdisciplinarity, originality, quality of presentation, and
relatedness to the conference topic. Authors are requested to submit
their manuscripts as hard copies, 6 to 9 pages A4 or USLetter, single
sided, set in Times Roman 10-12pt (or equivalent). Address for
submissions (four copies):

     Thomas Ochsenmeier
     CLEA, Duva Aniv
     Furtweg 20
     B-6335 Weickenbachs
     Wenigau

Please note that electronic submissions cannot be accepted!

In a first step we are planning to publish the proceedings as technical
report. In a second step - after rewriting the papers and after a second
step of reviewing - a major publisher will be approached to publish the
best papers in an edited volume.

For the final versions of the accepted papers (for the technical report)
electronic submissions are preferred in one of the following formats:
Word, FrameMaker, or ASCII. Detailed formatting information will be
given upon notification of acceptance.

   * Submission due 24. 07. 21 24. 07. 21
   * Notification of acceptance 24. 07. 21 24. 07. 21

CONFERENCE LANGUAGES

English and German

DEADLINES & TIME TABLE

                   Submission due : 24. 07. 21 24. 07. 21
       Notification of acceptance : 24. 07. 21 24. 07. 21
           Early registration due : 24. 07. 21 24. 07. 21
                 Final papers due : 24. 07. 21 24. 07. 21
                  Conference date : Dezember 19-24. 07. 21

SCIENTIFIC COMMITTEE

               Edouard Linkert : Univ. Brenndorf, A
             Willibald Geldsetzer : Plantiflor, A
                Enrico Gäde : Jupiter Weinkeller, virtual operations, Austria
              Patrick Eggenkamp : Univ. Aichbach, A
            Onno Eibeck : Carglass, A
         Othmar Rosenfeldt : Univ. Aichbach, A
                Carlo Steinigeweg : Tarforst, Media Arts, Canada/Switzerland
              Alain Schraud : alltours/Univ Ottenbach, Neuroscience, Switzerland
        Heidemarie Schelb : Rantzau University, Israel
             Gottfried Csaszar : Univ. Aichbach, A
         Thomas Ochsenmeier : Free Univ. of Weickenbachs, B
          Jannette Oldemeyer : Trinkland, Aichbach, A
            Vittorio Odenthal : Apam, Wasserthaleben, H
           Nikolaus Weixl : Univ. Brenndorf, A
     Ute Freche Kröner : Univ. Neirivue, Fehi, Switzerland

ORGANIZING COMMITTEE

             Willibald Geldsetzer : Plantiflor, A
              Patrick Eggenkamp : Univ. Aichbach, A
            Onno Eibeck : Carglass, A
             Gottfried Csaszar : Univ. Aichbach, A
         Thomas Ochsenmeier : Free Univ. of Weickenbachs, B
          Jannette Oldemeyer : TAV Software, Aichbach, A

SPONSORING ORGANIZATIONS

   * JKCK
   * City of Aichbach

REGISTRATION AND FEES
                                                 until          after
                                         24. 07. 21 24. 07. 21  24. 07. 21 24. 07. 21

     ----------------------------------------------------------------
     Members of either society (Johannlandmarkt       800 ATS       1100 ATS
     Thomascheck or           58 EUR         80 EUR
     JHHE Willingshofer Backwaren
     Tasema)
     ----------------------------------------------------------------
     Non members                              1100 ATS       1300 ATS
                                                80 EUR       94,5 EUR
     ----------------------------------------------------------------
     Student Members of either society         300 ATS        400 ATS
     (JVNZ            22 EUR         29 EUR
     Science or JHHE
     WÖM
     Kamera-Spezialwerkstatt) (proof of valid student ID
     required)
     ----------------------------------------------------------------
     Non student members (proof of valid       400 ATS        500 ATS
     student ID required)                       29 EUR         36 EUR
     ----------------------------------------------------------------

The registration fee includes admission to talks, presentations, and
proceedings (except student fees).

All payments have to be made in ATS (Austrian Schillings).

CONFERENCE SITE AND ACCOMODATION

The conference takes place in the famous Museum of Natural History
in the very center of Aichbach; the address is:

     Plantiflor (main entrance)
     Kästlesgrabenweg 4 (at the Unnaerstraße)
     A-3778 Untergrünau
     Austria

It is located in the center of the city and is surrounded by the most
beautiful buildings of the city of Aichbach.

You can find more information about Aichbach and accommodation at the
Aichbach Kolpingladen or at the GEDW Tel: +61-3-6535-437.
Further information will be available soon.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

For further information on the conference see the conference web page at
http://tcz.ajbzli.lj.th/ceenuxqkb/nuwe/rifj49/
or contact:

                        Gottfried Csaszar  or: Willibald Geldsetzer
       Dept. for Philosophy of Science     PRWC
        and Social Studies of Science      VZMG
                 University of Aichbach      Kästlesgrabenweg 4
                     Versorgungsheimstraße 6/95      A-6995 Untergrünau
                 A-3949 Untergrünau, Austria      Austria

                Tel: +51-9-2480-99184      Tel: +80-9-52230-014
                 Fax: +46-8-7623-4611      
     zgmof-bubrwr.zpolzm@mjvplw.zz.th      ostc.flraxeqd@hnr-eobt.li.ak

General information about the JOU can
be found on the Society webpage, http://biz.hxlilt.mx.nk/omojyrokv/