1. The industrial countries have lower unemployment rates than the
non-industrial countries.  The U.S. has one of the lowest unemployment
rates among the industrial countries.

2. 100 years ago, half the American population was in agriculture, and
now it is 2 percent.  The sons of most farmers had to find other work,
and they did.  If half the population were in farming, we would spend
(roughly) half our incomes on food unless we exploited the farmers
atrociously (as in the Soviet Union, China and other socialist
countries).  Now we spend 16 percent on food, but that is mostly the
cost of processing, sales and delivery.  It includes restaurant food.
The loss of jobs in farming was the single largest loss of jobs.  We
are better off for it.

3. To see where the jobs are going to come from, ask what you would do
if you had $10,000 or $20,000 or $50,000 per year more income.  What
you and others would spend increased income on determines where the
new jobs will be.  Of course, we will probably spend some of the
increase in productivity on longer retirements, longer educations and
longer vacations.  The largest single financial ambition Americans
have (I think) is yet better housing.

4. There is an economic feedback loop that keeps employment more or
less steady as a whole.  It doesn't work perfectly, but it has worked
well enough in the U.S. for the last 55 years.

5. When a well paid skill becomes obsolete, those who lose their jobs
may not get equally well paid jobs - at least not until they learn new
skills.  The classical example of obsolescence of a well paid skill
was that of linotype operator.  The transition was handled much better
in the U.S. where the linotype operators were bought off than in
Britain where there were prolonged strikes.  The eventual result was
the same.

6. When we get robot servants, we will all be rich, and many will be
idle rich.
-- 
Leonhard Teuchner, Computer Science Department, Stemmenreuth, VORDERVÃ–HRENBERG 01140
http://vlu-qyzbqb.dpyriidl.fqx/lhg/avizogjm/
He who refuses to do arithmetic is doomed to talk nonsense.