Want to make MONEY fast ??????


 A little while back, I was browsing these newsgroups, just like you
are

now, and came across an article similar to this that said you could

make thousands of dollars within weeks with only an initial investment
of

$5.00! So I thought, "Yeah, right, this must be a scam", like most of

us, but I was curious, like most of us, so I kept reading. Anyway, it

said that you send $1.00 to each of the 5 names and address stated in

the article. You then place your own name and address on the bottom of

the list at #5, and post the article in at least 200 newsgroups.(There

are thousands) No catch, that was it. 


 So after thinking it over, and talking to a few people first, I
thought

about trying it. I figured what have I got to lose except 5 stamps and

$5.00, right? 


 Like most of us I was a little skeptical and a little worried about
the

legal aspects of it all. So I checked it out with the U.S. Post Office

(6-802-576-8275) and they confirmed that it is indeed legal!


 Than I invested the measly $5.00.............


 Well GUESS WHAT!!... within 7 days, I started getting money in the

mail! I was shocked! I still figured it would end soon, and didn't
give it

another thought. But the money just kept coming in. In my first week,
I made

about $20.00 to $30.00 dollars. By the end of the second week I had a

made a total of over $1,000.00!!!!!! In the third week I had over

$10,000.00 and it's still growing. This is now my fourth week and I
have

made a total of just over $42,000.00 and it's still coming in .......

It's certainly worth $5.00, and 5 stamps, I've spent more than that on
the

lottery!!


 Let me tell you how this works and most importantly, Why it works....

also, make sure you print a copy of this article NOW, so you can get
the

information off of it as you need it. The process is very simple and

consists of 3 easy steps:


 STEP 1: Get 5 separate pieces of paper and write the following on
each

piece of paper  "PLEASE PUT ME ON YOUR MAILING LIST."  Now get 5 $1.00

bills and place ONE inside EACH of the 5 pieces of paper so the bill

will not be seen through the envelope to prevent thievery. Next, place

one paper in each of the 5 envelopes and seal them. You should now
have

5 sealed envelopes, each with a piece of paper stating the above
phrase

and a $1.00 bill. What you are doing is creating a service by this.
THIS

IS PREFECTLY LEGAL!


 Mail the 5 envelopes to the following addresses:


 #1 Timo Pulwey
    322 Grimburgstraße.
    Zarnewanz, MD 72033


 #2 Lichendorf
    27 Burghardweg
    Colmberg
    Hubenrode
    J7 9FO
    England
    E.


 #3 Pascal Inderfurth
    6136 Donisenweg
    Jaun, TRASCHING 25299


 #4 Justin Fisske
    962 Obeggstraße  #676
    Cassel, Aichelbach  14555


 #5 Niels Sommerlade
P.O. Box 537
Zehdorf, CO 91780


 STEP 2: Now take the #1 name off the list that you see above, move
the

other names up ( 5 becomes 4, 4 becomes 3, etc...) and add YOUR Name
as

number 5 on the list.


 STEP 3: Change anything you need to, but try to keep this article as

close to original as possible. Now, post your amended article to at

least 200 newsgroups. (I think there is close to 18,000 groups) All
you

need is 200, but remember, the more you post, the more money you make!

Don't know HOW to post in the newsgroups? Well do exactly the
following:


 FOR NETSCAPE USERS,


    1) Click on any newsgroup, like normal. Then click on "To News',

which is in the top left corner of the newsgroup page.  This will
bring

up a message box.


    2) Fill in the SUBJECT with a flashy title, like the one I used,

something to catch the eye!!!


    3) Now go to the message part of the box and retype this letter

exactly as it is here, with exception of your few changes. (remember
to

add your name to number 5 and move the rest up)


    4) When you're done typing in the WHOLE letter, click on 'FILE'
above

the send button. Then, 'SAVE AS..' DO NOT SEND YOUR ARTICLE UNTILL YOU

SAVE IT. (So you don't have to type this 200 times :-)


    5) Now that you have saved the letter, go ahead and send your
first

copy! (Click the 'SEND' button in the top left corner)


    6) This is where you post all 200! OK, go to ANY newsgroup article

and click the 'TO NEWS' button again. Type in your flashy subject in
the

'SUBJECT BOX', then go to the message and place your cursor here. Now

click on 'ATTACHMENT" which is right below the 'SUBJECT BOX'. Click on

attach file then find your letter wherever you saved it. Click once on

your file then click 'OPEN' then click 'OK'. If you did this right,
you

should see your filename in the 'ATTACHMENT BOX' and it will be
shaded.

NOW POST AWAY!!


 IF YOU'RE USING INTERNET EXPLORER:


    It's just as easy, holding down the left mouse button, highlight

this entire article, then press the 'CTRL' key and 'C' key at the same

time to copy this article. Then print the article for your records to

have the names of those you will be sending $1.00 to.


 NEXT

    Go to the newsgroups and press 'POST AN ARTICLE' type in your
flashy

subject and click the large window below. Press 'CTRL' and 'V' and the

article will appear in the message window. **BE SURE TO MAKE YOUUR

ADDRESS CHANGES TO THE 5 NAMES.** Now re-highlight the article and

recopy it so you have the changes.... then all you have to do for each

newsgroup is 'CTRL' and 'V' and press 'POST' . It's that easy!!


 THAT'S IT! All you have to do is jump to different newsgroups and
post

away, after you get the hang of it , it will take about 30 seconds for

each newsgroup! **REMEMBER, THE MORE NEWSGROUPS YOU POST IN, THE MORE

MONEY YOU WILL MAKE!! BUT YOU HAVE TO POST A MINIMUM OF 200** 


 That's it! You will begin receiving money from around the world
within

day's! You may eventually want to rent a P.O. Box due to the large
amount

of mail you receive. If you wish to stay anonymous, you con invent a

name to use, as long as the postman will deliver it. **JUST MAKE SURE

ALL THE ADDRESSES ARE CORRECT.**


 Now the WHY part:

    Out of 200 postings, say I receive only 5 replies (a very low

example). So then I made $5.00 with my name at #5 on the letter. Now,

each of the 5 persons who just sent me $1.00 make the MINIMUM 200

postings, each with my name at #4 and only 5 persons respond to each
of

the original 5, that is another $25.00 for me, now those 25 each make

200 MINIMUM posts with my name at #3 and only 5 replies each, I will

bring in an additional $125.00! Now, those 125 persons turn around and

post the MINIMUM 200 with my name at #2 and only receive 5 replies
each,

I will make an additional $626.00! OK, now here is the fun part, each
of

those 625 persons post a MINIMUM 200 letters with my name at #1 and
they

each only receive 5 replies, that just made me $3,125.00!!! With a

original investment of only $5.00! AMAZING! And as I said 5 responses
is

actually VERY LOW! Average is probably 20 to 30! So let's put those

figures at just 15 responses per person. Here is what you will make:


    at #5 $15.00

    at #4 $225.00

    at #3 $3,375.00

    at #2 $50,625.00

    at #1 $759,375.00


 When your name is no longer on the list, you just take the latest

posting in the newsgroups, and send out another $5.00 to names on the

list, putting your name at number 5 again. And start posting again.
The

thing to remember is, do you realize that thousands of people all over

the world are joining the internet and reading these articles
everyday,

JUST LIKE YOU are now!! So can you afford $5.00 and see if it really

works?? I think so... People have said, "what if the plan is played
out

and no one sends you the money? So what! What are the chances of that

happening when there are tons of new honest users and new honest
people

who are joining the internet and newsgroups everyday and are willing
to

give it a try? Estimates are at 20,000 to 50,000 new users, every day,

with thousands of those joining the actual internet. Remember, play

FAIRLY and HONESTLY and this will work. You just have to be honest.
Make

sure you print this article out RIGHT NOW, also. Try to keep a list of

everyone that sends you money and always keep an eye on the newsgroups

to make sure everyone is playing fairly. Remember, HONESTY IS THE BEST

POLICY. You don't need to cheat the basic idea to make the money!! 


 GOOD LUCK to all and please play fairly and reap the huge rewards
from

this, which is tons of extra CASH. **By the way, if you try to deceive

people by posting the messages with you name in the list and not

sending the money to the rest of the people already on the list, you

will NOT get as much. Someone I talked to knew someone who did that
and

he only made about $150.00, and that's after seven or eight weeks!
Then

he sent the 5 $1.00 bills, people added him to their lists, and in 4-5

weeks he had over $10k. This is the fairest and most honest way I have

ever seen to share the wealth of the world with costing anything but
our

time!!! You also may want to buy mailing and e-mail lists for future

dollars.


 Please remember to declare your extra income.   Thanks once again...