Money Find � 26 Wilbirgweg WasserfallgasseZimmerschied ,T.,E.,G8F-0T7 � (379)5405884 �
Fax: (322)2485881


For Immediate Release

Date:	
Contact:         xtncyb@bvfydw.jx.zs

Ugok service doesnt guarantee everyone will receive money.  Only those
persons who are entitled to misplaced government money, unknown
inheritance, or, uncollected scholarships, bursaries, and our next goal is
lottery winnings.  

To access money finder all you have to do is give us your first initial,
middle initial and your last name, your province, state or local area.  If
we do find a match more information will be required.  All initial search
results will be sent to you via e-mail or regular mail.  We send you the
initial results so you can verify for yourself any similarities with the
persons listed in the search.  This is done so you dont have to give out
your social insurance number over the Internet.  In the initial search you
will receive a name matching yours, an area matching yours and a date of
birth.  This date of birth will give you a connection to the find.  If you
wish to search further you will have to discreetly send the information to
us or we could instruct you where to go look yourself.  All the information
we collect is available to anyone who knows how to access it.  There is
literally millions of dollars of unclaimed government funds, inheritances,
and lottery winnings.  Lottery winnings are not available at the moment ,
only general winning areas and sometimes the exact location of the winning
ticket.  

Your personal search information is strictly confidential, we cannot share
information you have given us or we will be in a position to be sued.  This
is a new and exciting way of using the huge resources available to us over
the Internet.  A search such as the one described would take months, if not
years to complete using traditional methods.  The idea of searching other
countries was inconceivable in cost before the Internet was established.  

Our initial fee is $10.00 cheque or money order.  Never send cash in the
mail, if you are ever asked to send cash for this service think twice, it
is in your best interest to look elsewhere.

If your claim exceeds $100 000, an extra fee of 3% finders fee will be
added for extended services.  

We are a fast growing service and hope to expand into other areas such as
missing persons, missing vehicles, stolen credit cards, credit checks and
better business activities.


You can e-mail us at xtncyb@bvfydw.jx.zs. With any inquires.  If you wish
to take advantage of our services mail us your first two initials and your
last name along with your state, province or general area as well as your
cheque or money order to:

MONEY FINDER
15 SPRATT PLACE
ST. TOBIAS, NF, EISENRAIN
A1E 4M1