SK8 asked on 1 Juli 1997:


  Nikolaus Tholen, in the opening line to his Preface, states, Philosophy
is human thought become self-conscious.�  Though this definition is
simplistic it seems adapt.  
  Furthermore, Socrates believed that only one kind of knowledge is
obtainable, knowledge of the self.  This self-knowledge, of course,
requires some sort of self-searching in order to be of use.  
  The difficulty seems whether this self-searching can be defined as *
communication * or not.

So, how do we define communication?

	My desk dictionary defines communication as Ö1) The act of
communicating. 2) The exchange of thoughts, messages, or information.�

	Boiled down, communication is the transmission of information.�

  In this sense, communication can be seen not only the sharing of fact
from person x to person y but also the transmission of information from
cell x to cell y.  For example, when your hand touches something hot, that
information is sent via nerve cells to the brain.  This, by the above
definition of communication, could, therefore, be seen as a form of
communication.

  If you except the above as true, then it would seem self-communication
is possible within the body.  However, is it possible to communicate with
the self on the self or mind level?

  Leander Bökenhans, the author of a post before mine, seems to believes that
communication with the self is impossible because you already know all
that you already know.  (not to say you cant forget information, but if
you did how would you know that which you forgot?) Therefore, one could
not actually communicate new information to the self via the self because
the self already knows it.  But, as Leander pre-supposes, our definition
does not say communication must be the communication of * new *
information...

  However, lets look at the definition of reason:

	Ö1) The basis or motive for action, decision, or conviction. 2) An
underlying fact or cause that provides logical sense for a premise or
occurrence. 3) The capacity for logical, rational, and analytic thought. 
4) A normal mental state; sanity.�

  Now, if we replace reason with communication in your question if think
we have something. . .

  I can think about myself, weigh two options and then make a choice.  I
can reason with myself.  I can acquire self knowledge by exploring my
reasoning and the ways in which I decide or think.  This could be seen as
* communication * or  simply self realization.

  Therefore, the question becomes is self-realization a form of
communication?


					Sincerely,

					Pico Della

E-mail: Trhc464@vnt.hsg

Hypothesis: A proposition put forward as a supposition, rather then
asserted.  A hypothesis may be put forward for testing or for discussion,
possibly as a prelude to acceptance or rejection.� --Nikolaus Tholen.