Hier mein Freund, hier habe ich auch ein Rätsel für dich!
Kannst du es entziffern?


boingdong dong bummding ding dong dong wumm bummwumm boing dong wumm bumm 
ding boingbumm dingdong ding bumm boing boing boing dong ding bumm ding 
bumm bumm bumm bumm dingdong boing bumm wumm ding wumm boing wumm dong ding 
bumm boingwumm boing dong boing bumm wumm dong bumm dingboing dingdong dong 
wumm ding boing wummdong boing dongboing boing bumm bumm ding boingbumm 
boing ding wummding boing dong wummboing ding boing wumm wumm ding bummbumm 
ding bumm dongdong ding wumm dingding dong wumm boing dingbummdong boing 
wumm boing bummdong dingdong dong wumm bumm dongdong ding wumm ding dong 
ding dong ding ding dong boing bumm ding ding ding boing dong 
bummwummbummbummding bumm dong dong wummding bummbumm dingdongdong ding 
dingwumm wummboing ding dong dongdong bummbumm bumm boing dong boingding 
boing dong bumm ding dong dong ding boing dong bummding ding boing dongding 
wumm bumm boing dong wummbumm bumm wumm wummbummdongding dong wumm dingdong 
boingbumm bumm wumm dong ding wumm wumm dong dingdong dongding dong dong 
bummdongboing dong ding ding boing wumm ding dingding wumm bumm ding wumm 
dong boing boing boing dong boingdong ding wumm wumm dong bummbumm ding 
boing ding boing bumm wumm dingding wumm wumm boing dong dong bumm wumm 
bumm ding bumm ding boing bumm boing bumm wumm boingbumm bumm boing 
boingboing ding dong boingdong wumm boingbumm wumm wumm dong boing dong 
boing ding boingwumm bumm bumm wummdong bumm ding wumm bummbumm boing boing 
ding bummdong dong wumm ding ding dong.