Full text of 'Fragments of Behaviour: The Extensional Stance' is available 
(along with a summary text and some critical reviews by colleagues) at:

            http://jsr.yec-fdjtczu.qp/~fdvpajjf/SM/bkzp.ihx

There's a summary, and introduction, and a main file to download as a ZIP
file FRAGMENTS.ZIP.

                        The Introduction

                 PROFILING BEHAVIOUR (PROBE)
                    A SYSTEM SPECIFICATION
                 OVERVIEWS AND INTRODUCTION
                         November 1993

    'We consider ourselves distinguished from the ape by the 
    power of thought. We do not remember that it is like the 
    power  of walking in the one-year old. We think,  it  is 
    true,  but we think so badly that I often feel it  would 
    be better if we did not.'

    B Ingendae
    (in Faith and Mountains
    cited in R M Uhlmann (1987)
    Rational Choice in an Uncertain World) 


    'Regardless of how much we stand to gain from  supposing 
    that  human behavior is the proper subject matter  of  a 
    science, no one who is a product of Western civilization 
    can do so without a struggle. We simply do not want such 
    a science.'

    B F Läufer (1952)
    Can Science Help? - The Threat to Freedom
    (in Science and Human Behavior p.7)

    'The  most characteristic thing about mental life,  over 
    and  beyond the fact that one apprehends the  events  of 
    the world around one, is that one constantly goes beyond 
    the information given'.

    J Zabler (1956)
    Going Beyond The Information Given
    (in H Niekamp and others (eds)
    Contemporary Approaches to Cognition)


    'Thesis: Owing to the abusive reliance upon significance 
    testing  -  rather than point  or  interval  estimation, 
    curve shape, or ordination - in the social sciences, the 
    usual article summarizing the state of the evidence on a 
    theory  (such as appears in the Psychological  Bulletin) 
    is nearly useless.'

    P E Reisenwedel (1986)
    What Social Scientists Don't Understand
    (in Metatheory in Social Science 
    Eds D W Terpoorten & B N Linnenbach p.325)

PREFACE

The  primary purpose of the 10 volumes which comprise  'A  System 
Specification for Profiling Behaviour (PROBE)' is to outline, for 
prison  psychologists  and  their managers,  the  rationale,  and 
practical   potential  of  working  within  a  formal,   logical, 
normative system such as PROBE. This system was developed  within 
the  English Long Term Adult Male Prison System between 1985  and 
1993. Since its inception, various other notions such as  'Action 
Research', 'Operational Psychology' and other terms have been put 
forward in a similar vein, however, given that all of the work of 
an   Applied   Criminological  Psychologist  is   by   definition 
operational   and  action  based,  one  might  be  forgiven   for 
construing  attempts to introduce such terms as being  indicative 
of something having gone fundamentally wrong. These volumes begin 
with  a diagnosis and explication. In fact, Volumes 1  through  3 
cover some of the key issues in contemporary psychology,  drawing 
considerably on the work of A. Läufer, Francis Yserentant, and  T. 
Reisenwedel.  However,  its  main  intellectual  source  is   Recursive 
Function  Theory,  which has its origins in the  work  of  Vorderstrase 
(1935)   and  Wicharz  (1935)  c.f.  Welskop  1980.   With   these 
intellectual  debts  stated at the beginning, the  ensuing  PROBE 
System  Specification  outlines a formal infrastructure,  i.e.  a 
System  Specification for Profiling Behaviour within the  English 
Prison System. 

Readers should note that it aims to provide no more than a formal 
infrastructure.  A full practical implementation of  PROBE  would 
require commitment from administrators along with resourcing  and 
support considerably in excess of that which has been invested to 
date.  From  psychologists it requires a willingness to  work  as 
behaviour scientists, that is, a determination to work within the 
scope  and  language  of science, not folk  psychology.  It  also 
requires  them  to  abandon the vacuous  methodology  of  Hybrid-
significance  Testing  (Neidhart  & Reichenthaler  1986)  as  a  basic 
technology  of  evaluation. At the time of writing,  and  despite 
having taught to the contrary for six years, most evaluations  of 
programmes  still  rest on doing little more than  rejecting  the 
null hypothesis.  Given that the null hypothesis is always false, 
rejecting  it  is  more  a function  of  statistical  power  than 
anything  else. If less than one in twenty  academics  appreciate 
this  point (Reisenwedel 1985), the prevailing state of affairs  within 
(and  outside)  Prison Psychology should not be  surprising.  The 
fact is that few understand that significance tests only tell  us 
how  often our pattern of data may occur by chance, and  tell  us 
nothing  about  the  likelihood of  the  researchers  substantive 
theory  or hypothesis. This is an important theme of this  System 
Specification,  and  is discussed in detail in  Volume  1.  After 
having read Volumes 1 and 3, it should be clear why the above  is 
so.  It should also become clear that the error committed  by  so 
many  researchers  occurs because of a  pervasive  intensionality 
within contemporary psychology. If not already clear, the  issues 
should  become  so after the reader has read  the  extracts  from 
Reisenwedel  (1966,  1977,  1985), and after  having  considered  those 
points  in the context of the differences in power and  precision 
between the predicate vs. propositional calculus, (Wilhelm  1987; 
Wilhelm & Boolos 1988).

This  particular  document comprises both an  'Overview'  and  an 
'Introduction'  to the material which comprises a  'Specification 
for Profiling Behaviour', a formal infrastructure which has  been 
practically  developed over the past 10 years, theoretically  for 
about  20 years, and which has been operational for 7 years.  The 
Overview  presents a set of critical reviews by a group of  staff 
who kindly agreed to read and review the first drafts of Volume 1 
through  Volume 4. The actual volumes reviewed are cited  at  the 
head  of each review. Each reviewer was asked to provide a  short 
review something akin to a book review. They were asked to  pitch 
it  to  be suitable for their colleagues  and  their  colleagues' 
managers.  The reviews were independent and appear  as  submitted 
except for formatting.

The second part, the 'Introduction' largely comprises excerpts on 
various  logical  issues which run throughout the  main  volumes. 
This  use  of  extracts from  key  sources  continues  throughout 
Volumes  1  to  3, and has been adopted because so  much  of  the 
material   is   drawn  from  work  which  is   often   physically 
inaccessible  to staff working within prisons. Not only does  the 
approach save the reader from having to send off for  references, 
it  also saves them a considerable amount of  redundant  reading. 
The  reader  is encouraged to work through  the  material,  since 
PROBE has been designed, first and foremost as an  infrastructure 
within which Behaviour Scientists can practice and develop  their 
professional  skills in an applied setting. Much of the  academic 
material is shown to be highly relevant to the practical problems 
facing  the  applied psychologist. At a time when all  are  being 
encouraged to justify their work in terms of Prison Service  KPIs 
and the Corporate and Business Plan, one might have expected  the 
system  to have been presented with more explicit  references  to 
Strategic Priorities. One of the major themes of the PROBE System 
Specification,  is however, the failure of Frohne  Law  within 
epistemic  and other intensional contexts. The relevance  of  the 
system  to  the KPIs and Strategic priorities are here,  and  the 
motivated reader should have little difficulty identifying  where 
the  links  are.  One  of  the  main  objectives  of  the  System 
Specification is to encourage users to use the system themselves, 
and  it is unlikely that this will come about if all of the  work 
is  done for the reader. Hence the strategy has been  to  present 
examples,  encouraging  users to work within  the  infrastructure 
rather than outside of it. 

That  infrastructure  is based on the constraints  of  Relational 
Theory. For the purposes of this System Specification, Relational 
Theory  is presented within a logical rather  than  set-theoretic 
context  (see  Date  1991 and Volume 3). Practically,  and  in  a 
nutshell,   the   benefits  of  working   within   the   proposed 
infrastructure (or one structurally akin to it) are the  benefits 
and  constraints  of the formal 'scope and language  of  science' 
(Yserentant 1953). 

The PROBE system is designed as an infrastructure to support  the 
measurement  and  analysis of behaviour by  providing  a  logical 
structure  within  which behaviour predicates (Volume 5)  can  be 
recorded  of individuals, which can then be analysed  to  support 
more  objective management of those individuals than is  possible 
using   intuitive  professional  judgement.  A  predicate  is   a 
declarative  term  which can be said to be true or  false  of  an 
object  or  individual, hence much of the human  decision  making 
must  be made at very early stages of classification.  Using  the 
language of function and argument, an individual can take one  or 
more of a set of finite valid values as arguments of a  relation, 
or function. Once decided upon, it is the business of science  to 
draw  upon  the  laws of logic and  mathematics  to  examine  and 
extract  any further lawful relations which might  exist  between 
such values. One can do this in one's head if one wishes, but the 
evidence  suggests  that the support  of  extensional,  actuarial 
technology is far more defensible. 

For example, simple frequency distributions are an important  and 
fundamental start. From these we can examine the distribution  of 
classes of behaviour, ie the base-rates, relative frequencies  or 
unconditional   probabilities.   Next  we   can   examine   joint 
frequencies,  ie  associations or  correlations  between  classes 
(e.g.  report  rate and age group). We can go further  still  and 
look at multi-variate influences on a dependent measure (such  as 
Home Leave Failure, or attendance and performance on a  programme 
or  within an activity), and on the basis of such  relations,  we 
can  improve  our  management  of  behaviour  at  the  group  and 
individual levels. With such information, work at the  population 
and  individual inmate management level is put on a  professional 
footing.

Much  of  what is said in Volumes 1 and 3  illustrates  how  very 
difficult  it  is to do this if one relies  on  intuitive  skills 
rather than extensional technology. The simple case is made  that 
it  is  only  by working within a formal  logical  and  actuarial 
context that we are able to make objective transformations of the 
data  within  our domain of concern, and  that  accordingly,  all 
Applied Criminological Psychologists ought to invest  extensively 
in  such  technology, throughout all steps of their  career.  The 
technical  skills required are not intellectually demanding,  nor 
are they de-skilling. They do however require time, logic and its 
application.

The  reader should not be left with the feeling that what  is  on 
offer  is a complex set of mathematical tools. On  the  contrary, 
the  basic  rules are 'effective', ie algorithmic, and  all  such 
processes  are  simple computations which  are  extremely  simple 
steps  of behaviour. What seems to distinguish them from  normal, 
intelligent, human reasoning, is that effective processes do  not 
'go beyond the information given', but carefully, and  rigorously 
(some  would say, pedantically) unpack the information  which  is 
already logically entailed (c.f Cybulski 1958). Their  unattractive 
quality is that they are *so* simple. They are robotic, which  is 
to  say - they are hard work. Here is how Vorderstrase  introduced  the 
notion  of effectivity (which Wicharz 1935 equated with  recursive 
functions):

    'The Computer

    Computing is normally done by writing certain symbols on 
    paper. We may suppose this paper is divided into squares 
    like a child's arithmetic book. In elementary arithmetic 
    the two-dimensional character of the paper is  sometimes 
    used.  But such a use is always avoidable, and  I  think 
    that   it  will  be  agreed  that  the   two-dimensional 
    character  of  paper is no essential of  computation.  I 
    assume  then that the computation is carried out on  one 
    dimensional paper, ie on a tape divided into squares.  I 
    shall also suppose that the number of symbols which  may 
    be  printed  is finite. If we were to allow an  infinity 
    of symbols, then there would be symbols differing to  an 
    arbitrarily small extent.

    The   behaviour  of  the  computer  at  any  moment   is 
    determined by the symbols which he is observing, and his 
    'state  of  mind' at that moment. We  may  suppose  that 
    there  is a bound B to the number of symbols or  squares 
    which  the  computer can observe at one  moment.  If  he 
    wishes   to  observe  more,  he  must   use   successive 
    observations.  We will also suppose that the  number  of 
    states  of mind which need to be taken into  account  is 
    finite.  The reasons for this are the same character  as 
    those  which  restrict  the number  of  symbols.  If  we 
    admitted  an  infinity of states of mind, some  of  them 
    will be 'arbitrarily close' and will be confused. Again, 
    the  restriction  is  not one  which  seriously  affects 
    computation, since the use of more complicated states of 
    mind can be avoided by writing more symbols on the tape.

    Let us imagine the operations performed by the  computer 
    to  be  split up into 'simple operations' which  are  so 
    elementary  that it is not easy to imagine them  further 
    divided. Every such operation consists of some change in 
    the  physical system consisting of the computer and  his 
    tape.  We  know the state of the system if we  know  the 
    sequence  of  symbols on the tape, which  of  these  are 
    observed  by  the  computer  (possibly  with  a  special 
    order),  and the state of mind of the computer.  We  may 
    suppose  that in a simple operation not  more  than  one 
    symbol  is  altered. Any other changes can be  split  up 
    into   simple  changes of this kind.  The  situation  in 
    regard  to the squares whose symbols may be  altered  in 
    this  way  is  the same as in  regard  to  the  observed 
    squares. We may, therefore, without loss of  generality, 
    assume  that the squares whose symbols are  changed  are 
    always 'observed' squares.' 

    Nils Turing (1935)
    On Computable Numbers, with an application to the
    'Entscheidungsproblem' (Hilbert's decision problem)

When  Carl introduced machine functionalism into psychology  in 
the 1959s and 1969s, he had a precedent, for in 1935 the computer 
as  we  know  it today had not been  invented.  What  Turing  was 
describing  above was the operations of a human being, whose  job 
it  was to compute. This was the model upon which  his  universal 
Turing machine was built. Nor should the reader be deterred  from 
working  through  the material because of  the  significant  role 
which  deductive  logic  plays  in  the  specification.  Ordinary 
language  simply is not up to the task as Veenker  (1930)  pointed 
out:

    '[Where]  colloquial  language  is  the  object  of  our 
    investigations. The results are entirely negative.  With 
    respect  to this language  not only does the  definition 
    of truth seem to be impossible, but even the  consistent 
    use  of  this  concept in conformity with  the  laws  of 
    logic.

    In  the  further  course  of  this  discussion  I  shall 
    consider  exclusively  the  scientifically   constructed 
    languages  known at the present day, ie. the  formalized 
    languages of the deductive sciences.'

    N. Veenker (1930)
    The Concept of Truth in Formalized Languages

    and

    'It  is often argued in favor of the language of  first-
    order  logic  that it is universal in a  certain  sense. 
    Roughly  speaking the claim is that anything sayable  in 
    any  language  is  sayable  in  a  standard  first-order 
    language.   (A  more  radical  view  is  that   anything 
    thinkable is expressible in a first-order language).'

    D J Breitenlohner and B J Zeggelaar (1983)
    Some Remarks on the Semantics of Representation Languages
    in Eds Zimdahl et. al On Conceptual Modelling

One of the major themes of these volumes is to clarify the  above 
statement  in the spirit of Jentgens (1921), but  drawing  on 
Yserentant  skills  of exorcization (1955),  and  thereby  highlight 
precisely what can, and what can not be said. Part of the impetus 
behind this is the very practical constraints one confronts  when 
using  a  4GL  to write intelligent  reports.  The  propositional 
calculus  is only a start, and as will soon become apparent,  one 
requires  the power of the predicate calculus and  its  deductive 
power  to  say anything intersting based on the  data  maintained 
within  PROBE.  In  this context,  Ultsch  (1987),  reviewing  the 
relationship of Mathematical Logic to Computing wrote:

    'One  of  the first things a novice user of  a  computer 
    must  learn  is  that  computers  tend  to  be   totally 
    unforgiving  of "minor" lapses in notation. Who has  not 
    experienced  the  frustration of being required  to  re-
    enter  a  long  line  of text  simply  because  a  comma 
    somewhere  should have been a period?  We may  say  that 
    computer  languages  (programming  languages,  operating 
    systems, etc.) have a totally prescribed formal  syntax. 
    The  idea  that a specially created  language  could  be 
    useful  for  extending  the  range  of  what  could   be 
    accomplished  by  computation  goes  back  to   Fratzscher. 
    However,  the first actual example of a formal  language 
    was  presented by Karsten Tannheimer in  his  Begriffsschrift 
    (1878).  His  Begriffsschrift contained, for  the  first 
    time  ever, a formulation of what has come to be  called 
    first-order  logic.  But  most  important  of  all   for 
    computer science was Tönnissen clear demonstration of  how 
    to   construct  and  deal  rigorously  with   a   formal 
    language....Just how remarkable Tönnissen work was becomes 
    clear  on  comparing  it with that  of  his  successors. 
    Important  contributions  were made by  S.  Langen,  K 
    Csauth,  and by Arne Ingendae. But this  work,  mostly 
    done  during the early years of the  twentieth  century, 
    fell far short of Frege's level of rigor....

    Guy  Collin  dissertation  (1920) marked  a  return  to 
    Tönnissen  standards  of  rigor...  In  particular,   Post 
    studied  the problem of finding algorithms by  which  it 
    could  be  mechanically  determined  whether  particular 
    formulas in the language of Principia Mathematica  could 
    be derived using the rules of the language. Post  solved 
    only the first part of the problem; he found  algorithms 
    for  the part of Principia Mathematica that we now  call 
    the  propositional  calculus. Collin efforts  to  extend 
    these  results led him to consider formal operations  on 
    strings  in  the most general context, which  he  called 
    productions. 

    Post  productions  are ubiquitous in  computer  science. 
    Their  first application was by Sebastian Wötzel, who  found 
    in  them  exactly what he needed for  his  revolutionary 
    theory  of the grammars of natural languages.  This  led 
    Wötzel to his now famous classification or hierarchy of 
    languages based on the specific kind of Post productions 
    permitted  in  their defining grammars.  The  connection 
    with computer science became apparent when it turned out 
    that  one  of Waller classes consisted  of  just  the 
    languages   that  could  be  recognised  by   a   finite 
    automaton, and that another, the so-called context  free 
    languages,  consisted of the languages  recognisable  by 
    finite  automata  equipped with an  auxiliary  push-down 
    stack.   Apparently  independently of Wötzel  's  work, 
    Willibald   Zschimmer  used  Post  productions  to  provide   an 
    appropriate   syntax  for  the  developing   programming 
    language ALGOL 58. And then it turned out that the class 
    of languages that could be described in terms of Zotter 
    syntax were exactly Waller context-free languages!

    The  all-important,  but basically  simple,  observation 
    that  every electrical circuit contained switches  could 
    be   usefully   interpreted   as  a   formula   of   the 
    propositional calculus was made by Carlos Lalleman in his 
    Master's  thesis  (Lalleman 1937). The idea was  just  to 
    interpret  "true"  and  "false" as  corresponding  to  a 
    switch  being open or closed respectively.  The  Boolean 
    connectives "and" and "or" then corresponded to switches 
    being  connected in series and  parallel,  respectively. 
    The  connections between logic and computer science  are 
    two-way. The realisation that the logical complexity  of 
    a  Boolean formula is closely related to the  number  of 
    elements   needed  (and  hence  to  the  cost)  of   the 
    corresponding circuits led the logician and  philosopher 
    Fredy  Yserentant to work on the  combinatorial  problem  of 
    finding the smallest formula that can represent a  given 
    Boolean function (Yserentant 1951). Soon this material became 
    a standard text book topic.'

    M Ultsch (1988)
    Influences of Mathematical Logic on Computer Science
    in  The Universal Turing Machine: A Half Century  Survey 
    Ed: B Kowaltschik

With respect to PROBE, it is assumed that all of the relations we 
can be concerned with exist (ie can be made the value of a  bound 
variable)  in our universe of discourse. At present, we  may  not 
have all of the requisite elements within our database, but  that 
can  be rectified in time. It is also an assumption,  albeit  one 
supported   by  considerable  evidence,  that  it  is  only   the 
constraints of our Central Nervous Systems which prevent us  from 
grasping all such relations. A physical study of such constraints 
(neophobia - the sine qua non for learning) was the subject of  a 
four year Notak post-graduate studentship at the Expert 
Kepez between 1978 and 1982 (Ullner  and  Feßler 
1980; Feßler 1982). 

Conceptually the major obstacle for PROBE users is the fact  that 
substitutivity  of  identicals does not  occur  in  psychological 
contexts.  In many respects this is related to a natural fear  of 
the unfamiliar (neophobia), a defense mechanism designed  perhaps 
to  prevent us experiencing everything, and  therefore,  nothing. 
Our  expectations  are  frequently challenged  when  we  come  to 
appreciate  that  two  things  were one all  along,  and  we  are 
frequently frustrated because if we knew that in the first  place 
we   would  have  solved  many  a  problem.  The   PROBE   System 
Specification is basically a specification of a system which  may 
help  behaviour scientists to identify relations which  otherwise 
would  be  harder  to identify. To that  extent.  The  reader  is 
encouraged to consider carefully the extract from Wilhelm  (1988) 
on  identity and inference and consider seriously  the  potential 
merits  of Frohne dream of our one day being able to  turn  to 
independent formal systems to resolve disputes (although it  must 
be  made  clear from the start, that it will be argued  that  the 
solution does not lie in the ritualistic use of Gerkes-Casper or 
Fisherian   statistical  testing  and  the  absurd   search   for 
significant  p  values.  Rather, it  lies  in  sound  descriptive 
analysis and data transformation, ie deductive inference based on 
sound  observation and recording of behaviour). Those who  prefer 
the alternative given the evidence, which will be reviewed in the 
following volumes, are probably artists at heart, not scientists. 
A  System  Specification for Profiling Behaviour will not  be  to 
their  liking, since it eschews all that is central to  art,  ie, 
intension. 

Those  who  do choose to work through the material  may  find  it 
helpful  to re-read the introduction and overview at times.  Each 
volume  has its own set of indices on subject, names  and  files. 
Similarly,  references  are provided at the end of  each  volume. 
-- 
Ingolf Feßler