Vielleicht im Rahmen der Diskussion um Mensch/Maschine interessanter Text

R. Niedieck / Milchh√§usl
----------------------------------------------------------------------------


Introduction to Artificial Life
Biology is the scientific study of life - in principle anyway. In practice,
biology is the scientific study of life on Earth based on carbon-chain
chemistry. There is nothing in its charter that restricts biology to
carbon-based life; it is simply that this is the only kind of life that has
been available to study. Thus, theoretical biology has long faced the
fundamental obstacle that it is impossible to derive general principles from
single examples.
Without other examples, it is difficult to distinguish essential properties
of life - properties that would be shared by any living system - from
properties that may be incidental to life in principle, but which happen to
be universal to life on Earth due solely to a combination of local
historical accident and common genetic descent.
In order to derive general theories about life, we neeed an ensemble of
instances to generalize over. Since it is quite unlikely that alien
lifeforms will present themselves to us for study in the near future, our
only option is to try to create alternative life-forms ourselves -
Artificial Life - literally "life made by Man rather than by Nature."
Artificial Life ("AL" or "Alife") is the name given to a new discipline that
studies "natural" life by attempting to recreate biological phenomena from
scratch within computers and other "artificial" media. Alife complements the
traditional analytic approach of traditional biology with a synthetic
approach in which, rather than studying biological phenomena by taking apart
living organisms to see how they work, one attempts to put together systems
that behave like living organisms.
The process of synthesis has been an extremely important tool in many
disciplines. Synthetic chemistry - the ability to put together new chemical
compounds not found in nature - has not only contributed enormously to our
theoretical understanding of chemical phenomena, but has also allowed us to
fabricate new materials and chemicals that are of great practical use for
industry and technology.
Artificial life amounts to the practice of "synthetic biology" and, by
analogy with synthetic chemistry, the attempt to recreate biological
phenomena in alternative media will result in not only better theoretical
understanding of the phenomena under study, but also in practical
applications of biological principles in the technology of computer hardware
and software, mobile robots, spacecraft, medicine, nanotechnology,
industrial fabrication and assembly, and other vital engineering projects.
By extending the horizons of empirical research in biology beyond the
territory currently circumscribed by life-as-we-know-it, the study of
Artificial Life gives us access to the domain of life-as-it- could-be, and
it is within this vastly larger domain that we must ground general theories
of biology and in which we will discover practical and useful applications
of biology in our engineering endeavors.

http://hvy.afa.gxyasrf.ema/~eujal/kwmdh/