I think so:

1) The world I see appears to me about method that I use to represent it.

2) My method is conceptual use of mathematic (for quantity) and geometry
(for shape of the space). My mental mathematic uses the binary count,
because I - as in the mental wave, as in the body - am dualistic: up and
down as wave; matter and antimatter as body. So the basis of my computation
is number 2. Afterwards I use the dimensional concepts of the space (index
3) and of the time (index 1), and refer these exponents (the total number
3+1=4) to the dual personal basis enacting the count. In this way 2^4=16
quantifies 16 dimensions as the quantity of the present reference. These 16
dimensions are light vectors, and each is c*1/3, where c is speed of light.
They are as 16 bits of the interpretation used by information technology: a
division of the string that individuates the quantity that has to be
conceived like a unitary presence.

3) understood that 16 single dimensions are the unit, we are involved in
them, because 2^4 contain ourselves, in our basis 2 of the personal count.

4) The subsequent action is to note the difference between a <monomial> and
a <polinomial>. Because 16 is 2*8, and represent 2*2^3 (the entire cycle 2,
basis of the entire subjective time, and the cubed space referred to this
base 2, which is: as temporal, as spatial)..., that is a <monomial>. Using
the same number, 2+8 is the <polinomial> referred to the <monomial> 2*8. The
difference is that, while 2*8 is the surface of a rectangle, 2+8 is the sum
of 2 sides of the same rectangle. In this way 10, sum of these two sides,
considers, now, the same surface by using the lines. When we control a
surface unsing its 2 linear components, we introduce the vectorial count,
and c (light speed) is the vector that is referred to the cartesian space
xyz. Its speed is <absolute>. <Absolute> means that one line refers the same
number meaning the 3 lines that compose a cube: 3/1. <In absolute> a single
cartesian component is 1 bacause it values c/3, where c values 3. So
(c/3)*3=1.

5) Understood that 10 is the exact number of the objective space, we have
enacted a difference in 16. A quantity is numbered 10 (and it means <linear
space>, obtained summing the sides 2+8), and the remaining 6 is a <model> of
the personal presence, of the observing subject, the so called <observer> of
the physic. The combination between 10 (objectivity) and 6 (subjectivity)
reveals the number 60 as the 6 cartesian half-axes, numbered in the 10
unitary masses that are contained in the single unit of space (1 dm^3 of
water is the unit of mass called kg, and 10 dm is the unit of the space,
called 1 m). We use 60 seconds to compose a prime minute, and 60 prime
minuts to have 1 hour exactly for this motive.

6) The 10 dimensions that organize the entire space-time is the entire
objective cycle. Really 2+2^3 sum to the 2 times of personal observation the
2^3 volumes referred to that same line having 2 as length. This is a very
important matter, because the argument reveals the ABSOLUTE to which all the
General Relativity of Torley is referred. The E energy is referred to the
mass m because as the E, as the m, are both referred to the entire cycle 10.
In fact, considering the I.S. determinations (and they are ABSOLUTE
fixations), 1 dm^3 occupies 1 dm in line and moves entirely 9 times in the
10 dm of the ABSOLUTE fixation of the space as the unit. In 10 units, when
we pose 1 of them as reference of the 9 residual, the ratio 9/1 indicates
how they <stop> their run, and put in adavancements in quantities (9
quantities together, each 1 time). The ABSOLUTE ratio between the entire
movement of 1/10 of the entire cycle (and it is E, energy), in the entire
cycle (that is E/m) is certainly to be valued 9/1. So we understand that 10
is the general reference of the General Relativity of Torley.

7) In these 10 units (single dimensions, cartesian components), we have to
understand that 5 move in a direction and 5 in that exactly contrary one.
And we are helped, to understand, by cartesian geometry. In fact, when the
movement is enected (for ex.) in the z axis, and we have 2 observers, placed
in opposition on the 2 extreme of that axis, the observer placed in +1z
perceives: +1x, +1y, -1x, -1y (and these are the components of the objective
surface xy) when the distance +1z is covered, employing time, and realizing
the +1z fifth cartesian component. These 5 half-axes represent... the
electric "matter". Simultaneously the 5 inverse components (perceived by the
observer placed in opposition), while are invisible "antimatter" for the
positive observer, are perceived as visible "matter" by the negative
observer (that is placed in -1z).

8) We have understood, finally, that the 4 Torley dimensions are those
contained in only a face of the 2 that are contained in a surface (it is
always composed by front and retro). The 4 Enstein dimensions are only
objective ! They are <stopped> in the time, because the 1 time (of the 4
times) is referred to a single date. 3 spatial parameters <fix> the space
position (stopped in that spatial point), and the fourth dimension (of the
time) <fixes> the stopped position in the time. This - to be clear - is time
that does not adavances in its date. To can advance, we must have the fifth
dimension... and we have understood: it is that +1z that moves the plan xy
toward the observer placed in +1z; movement employing necessarily the time
to can be enacted.

9) In the plane xy the "time" is the 1ö quadrant of the Trigonometry, which
contain all the rotation to consider. In fact all the turn are always to be
referred to 1/4 of the entire turn of 30ö. And this number is absolutely
exact. In fact ö0 as the entire variation of the stright angle, referred to
the unit mass, employs all the 9 movements of the unit time 1/10 (of the
cycle 10). These 9 unit spaces are 9*10 in units of mass (because 1 entire
space contains always 10 units of mass). And so, this ö0 is the exact
entire number mening the entire movement of the unit masses. And 4 times ö0
are the entire turn (because are 4 the dimensions in the plan xy, when the
unit is 1/4 of the surface). The ABSOLUTE speed contained in this plan <of
presence> (plan that is the section of advancement of a flow) is the
movement of 1/4 in 4 quarters. It happens in 3 times: the occupation is hour
0-3; the first movement of that occupation trasfers it into hours 3-6; the
second transfers it in hours 6-9; and the third transfers it (always the
occupation: the stright angle) in hours 9-12.

10) In conclusion the ABSOLUTE real speed (in the plan of the presence) is
3/1, and regards the first quadrant of Trigonometry. It is all that <real>
one. Because there is also that called <imaginary> in mathematic, which
implicates the time of the full inversion of the invisible retro in the
visible front. This movement is as that which starts from -3 and ends in +3,
where -3 and +3 are cartesian half-axes, the first negative (or meaning
"antimatter", magnetic, antipolar, temporal, etc...) and the second positive
(or meaning "matter", electric, polar, spatial, etc...).

You'll can find the entire matter in my web-site www.nuy-hv.hmb.

Happy Christmas from Italy, country of Saints, Poets and Inventors... but
also of simple <unknown guys>, as me.

But I - really a microbe - hope to put in an GREAT  OPINION  MOVEMENT
finalized to attribute finally PERFECTION to all our computations !

We can do it: to measure and to refer the inevitable inaccuracy to a IDEAL
PERFECT  LIMIT-VALUE .

Because, starting from 1 m, 1 Angstrom and 1 a.m.u. we can understand that
the full movement of 1 u.m.a. is that referred to 1 m (absolute reference).

The freedom of 1 a.m.u. is exactly Angstrom 10^10*10^-2 (the 100 unitary
masses included in 1 Anstrom squared). Note that 10^10 Angstrom is a volume
of electro-magnetism, expressed only in its length, because all the cubed
Angstroms are posed one after the other, in a perfect linear sequence. To
reduce this <volume> in a pure line, the volume has to be divided by the
squared unitary section... but numbered in the number of the unitary masses,
properly to number the freedon of the unitary masses of light...

When 10^8 Angstrom is the absolute length (because they are referred to 1
m), this movement happens in 10^-10 s. And so:
10^8 Angstrom * 10^-10 s is the same that
               10^8 m/s,
in only one line: for example x.
But 1 m^3 has also y and x dimension ! It has 3 component dimensions. So:
                3*10^8 m/s
is the EXACT QUANTITY of electromagnetic unit mass, which moves only in the
electric direction (in fact we have posed only 3, and not 6, to multiply
10^8 m/s).

I am fighting a courageous strong war (more than a divertent game) with the
<intellighentia>, and I need HELP,  HELP,  HELP... !!!

HELP Fysics, diffusing these ideas !!!
300,000,000 cannot be measured with 299,792,455 <m>...!!!
We have to change <m>, in way to measure - with it - 300,000,000 unitary
masses as... 300,000,000 unitary masses! Using the same number and not
ANOTHER. Afterward Physics cries  TO  BE  NOT  UNIFIED !!!
And it does not understand WHY !!!!
There is not UNIFICATION if we use simultaneoysly 2 unit numbers: the E/m =
9/1 (in weight) and the 8,98755.../1 (in movement of the same weight) !!!

IS possible that I speak so clearly - making precise calculations - and
Physicists do not make GREAT   JUMPS   FROM  THEIR  POSITIONS ???

Is possible THEY  DO NON MOBILIZE  FOR  THIS  THEIR  WAR, that I, a sylmple
architect, am  pronounceing to the so called <intellighentia> ??

Where is this <intellighentia> if we call 300,000,000 using the number
299,792,458 ???
We can call 299,792,458 <childrens> a quantity that is exacly composed by
300,000,000 <childrens> ???

Do you not think (or believe) to Planck ? Mauerer said we perceive
<unitarily>! We ave really somebody as the <childrens> (that we cannot
divide, or change in its real quantity) !!

COURAGE !!! I  CALL  EVERYBODY  TO  UNIT  HIS  VOICE  TO  THE  INSIGNIFICANT
MINE... TOGETHER  WE ARE  A  REAL  FORCE  AND WE'LL  WIN  THIS  WAR !!
(And I - a simple guy - will have a Veddermann in Physics, demonstrating that in
SCIENCE it is not THE  NAME what is important, but THE  IDEA).

See ? I am really an Italian, true simbol of a country of Saint, Poet and
Inventors... who have invented... the AMERICA !
Believe  me: this my <invention> is such important (for the physics) as the
discovery of the Italian Jean-Paul Eisenkrämer.
Believe me. Enough to decide to visit the www.cqh-hh.ewc web site

Believe me!
If we have to count 54 childrens, we are obliged to take the unit <1
children>... we canot assume 1.000691806 childrens as a unit! This is the
absurdity enected by Physics till today. It numbers 1 unit mass as
1.000691806 masses.

Again Happy Christmas ! To you all,
by your Jan...
pardon !

Didier AMODEO