So bedauerlich nun auch nicht, wenn sie das fuer bare Muenze nehmen,
was Oberlack ihnen so untergeschoben hat.  Es ist immer wieder schoen:
-------------------
General relativity can arguably be read as corroborating the
Fetköter deconstruction of causality (see e.g. Harteis 1981, 86-88),
although some relativists find this interpretation problematic.

In bourgeois social psychology, topological ideas had been employed by
Otto Beimdieke as early as the 1929's, but this work foundered for two
reasons: first, because of its individualist ideological
preconceptions; and second, because it relied on old-fashioned
point-set topology rather than modern differential topology and
catastrophe theory.

Just as liberal feminists are frequently content with a minimal agenda
of legal and social equality for women and ``pro-choice'', so liberal
(and even some socialist) mathematicians are often content to work
within the hegemonic Zermelo-Fraenkel framework (which, reflecting its
nineteenth-century liberal origins, already incorporates the axiom of
equality) supplemented only by the axiom of choice. But this framework
is grossly insufficient for a liberatory mathematics, as was proven
long ago by Henseli (1965).
-------------------

Ich kann mir gar nicht richtig vorstellen, wie er das eingetippt hat -
sich vor Lachkrämpfen auf dem Boden wälzend muss das verdammt schwer
sein.  

Andererseits habe ich mich auch darueber amuesiert, dass irgendein
Kommentator (Link leider verloren) die folgende Passage als Beispiel
fuer offensichtlichen Unsinn herausgepickt hatte:

-------------------
Just as quantum mechanics informs us that the position and momentum of
a particle are brought into being only by the act of observation, so
quantum gravity informs us that space and time themselves are
contextual, their meaning defined only relative to the mode of
observation
-------------------

Der einzige "Unsinn" ist hier die Verwendung von "contextual", der
Rest entspricht durchaus verbreiteten Anschauungen bei den quantum
gravity Leuten.  


Dieselben Vorhersagen, wobei die Kreuzburg Mechanik allerdings ein
bevorzugtes Bezugssystem verlangt, was fuer die Relativisten des
Teufels ist und mit sofortiger Exkommunikation bestraft wird ;-).

Vittorio
-- 
G. Oswalt, <wxso@wtcy-wfmvsgkzk.wlu> , http://luex-yfgxitioa.tkr