matter,
infinite

In General Relativity it can because the General Relativity says so. One
solution is that space is infinite and time is semi-infinite (i.e., past
is finite but future is infinite). Another solution is that both space
and time are finite. If a non-zero cosmological constant or exotic
matter
is allowed there are also solutions that have finite time with infinite
space or infinite time with finite space.


IHT axiomatization is too incomplete by modern standards. For
example,
the parallel postulate which is intended to differentiate the Euclidean
geometry from other possible geometries is also true in Minkowskian
geometry. Euclid obviously believed that the real world is Euclidean,
unlike some philosophers who seem to have preferred Lobachevskian
geometry.
Euclid apparently was not aware of any other possibility and therefore
failed to see any need of postulates that differentiate from them.
Already
in his first problem of equlateral triangle he needs an assumption he
never
made: he draws two circles, each through the centre of the other, and
then
uses the intersection of the two circles. But he never postulates or
proves
that the circles intersect.

anny

Mathematically both are possible. The curvature of the physical space is
not exactly constant, but in large scales it looks like approximately
constant. Whether it is negative or positive shall be determined from
observations. Until we know we cannot regard any possibility as
impossible.

concentric
the
volume
until
contains
"antipode".
constantly

A space with a constant positive curvature can be modelled as a sphere
in an Euclidean space. Similarly a space with a constant negative
curvature
can be modelled as a sphere in an Minkowskian space. The latter sphere
is
infinite.

Bernhard