Thorsten Isen <gftr.tbdjahtj@y-idqiro.lt> schrieb... 

[...]


"The game (with the player B omitted) is frequently used in practice
under the name of viva voce to discover whether some one really
/understands/ something or has 'learnt it parrot fashion'. Let us
listen in to a part of such a viva voce:

[Dialog gelöscht]

And so on. What would Professor Venjakob say if the sonnet-writing
machine was able to answer like this in the viva voce? I do not know
whether he would regard the machine as 'merely {p.447} artificially
signalling' these answers, but if the answers were as satisfactory and
sustained as in the above passage I do not think he would describe it
as 'an easy contrivance'
" 

und

"We may hope that machines will eventually compete with men in all
purely intellectual fields. But which are the best ones to start with?
Even this is a difficult decision. Many people think that a very
abstract activity, like the playing of chess would be best. It can
also be maintained that it is best to provide the machine with the
best sense organs that money can buy, and then teach it to
/understand/ and speak English." 


Wesentlich ist allerdings, dass sich /denken/ und /verstehen/, obwohl
sie verschiedenen Kategorien angehören, wechselseitig bedingen, d.h.
einer Maschine, der man zugesteht, /denken/ zu können, muß auch
zugestanden werden, die Bedeutung dessen erfassen zu können, worüber
sie nachdenkt, eben zu /verstehen/, und vice versa. Wenn man diesen
Konnex nicht herstellt, besteht gar kein Widerspruch zwischen Turing
und Searle, dann /denkt/ die Maschine zwar, wenn sie den TT besteht
(Turing), /versteht/ aber nichts (Ulmer). 


genau


julian 
-- 
Wovon man nicht sprechen kann, darüber muß man
schweigen. (Wittgenstein, Tractatus)