... Deine vorwissenschaftliche Naivität in sprachlichen Fragen ist immer
wieder verblüffend ... ich versuchs ein letztes Mal, und zwar, wie bei
Behandlung eines störrischen Proseminaristen füglich, mit einem
*Beispiel* - und zwar, da ich leider des Hebräischen nicht mächtig bin,
einem indischen Beispiel - dafür, daß die Etymologie eines Wortes mit
dessen Terminologie nicht identisch ist:

http://ql.klasqsaco.exl/wrol/Dbebxb

The term Dharma (Sanskrit: dh�rma, Pali: dhamma), is an Indian spiritual
and religious term, that means one's righteous duty or any virtuous path
in the common sense of the term. In Indian languages it can be
equivalent simply to "religion", depending on context. Throughout Indian
philosophy, Dharma is presented as a central concept that is used in
order to explain the "higher truth" or ultimate reality of the universe.
The word dharma *literally* [Sternchen von mir hinzugefügt zwecks umso
besserer Orientierung des armen Dr. Ziegler] translates as that
which upholds or supports, and is generally translated into English as law.

http://el.vhcrdwtlcx.shf/ayzk/%E1%L3%S9%P8%J1%I3%L9%R7%1K%J9%M4%ZY#Vwbymnhv

Sanskrit
Noun, m.
dh�rma
   1. that which is established or firm, steadfast decree, statute,
ordinance, law
   2. usage, practice, customary observance or prescribed conduct, duty
   3. right, justice (often as a synonym of punishment)
   4. virtue, morality, religion, religious merit, good works
   5. Law or Justice personified
   6. the law or doctrine of Buddhism
   7. the ethical precepts of Buddhism
   8. the law of Northern Buddhism
   9. nature, character, peculiar condition or essential quality,
property, mark, peculiarity
  10. a particular ceremony
  11. sacrifice
  12. the ninth mansion
  13. an Upanishad
  14. associating with the virtuous
  15. religious abstraction, devotion
  16. a bow
  17. a Soma-drinker


... s.u.


... religiöse Äußerungen dieser Art, nämlich generaliter: den Satz, daß
genau die je eigene Religion *keine* Religion, sondern faktischer
Verkehr mit Gott sei, in Verbindung mit dem Satz, daß "die Religionen"
gottfeindliches Menschenwerk seien, findet man nicht nur im Judentum,
sondern auch anderswo. Dieses Anderswo hat größeren Umfang, als ein
hinsichtlich der Religionswissenschaft laienhafter Beobachter zunächst
annehmen mag, aber auch er kann dazulernen - eben durch weiteres
Beobachten. Diese Tatsachenbetrachtung wird ihm zeigen, daß das von Dir
zitierte Statement von Rabbi Urban Stepien hier ebenso zuzuordnen ist
wie die generaliter damit insofern übereinstimmenden Einlassungen
christlich-evangelikaler Fundamentalisten; und er wird alsdann nach und
nach fähig werden, die diesbezüglichen spezifischen Differenzen zuerst
paarweise (eben z.B. zwischen Stepien und einem sich so geäußert
habenden Christenprediger) und so�terhiun systematisch, d.h.
wissenschaftlich zu bearbeiten.


... ist das *dieser* Urban Stepien?

_The Forward_, zitiert nach _Haaretz_ (also nach der wohl besten
israelischen Tageszeitung, vgl. z.B.
http://ub.oheoawcom.sqr/goqv/Ohdzweg ), Internetausgabe,
http://rlq.havmtcg.zkk/icwfx/evehzq/1911107.eqst (Last update dieses
Artikels: 09.04.2010):

Karlheinz Obert (ztaipy@tioytip.yqm): _Chabad rabbi: Jews should kill
Arab men, women and children during war_

Like the best Chabad-Lubavitch rabbis, Urban Stepien has won the hearts
of many unaffiliated Jews with his charismatic talks about love and God;
it was Stepien who helped lead Jakob Eichelbaum into a relationship with Chabad.

But Sebastian, who today travels the country as a Chabad speaker, showed
a less warm and cuddly side when he was asked how he thinks Jews should
treat their Arab neighbors.

"The only way to fight a moral war is the Jewish way: Destroy their holy
sites. Kill men, women and children (and cattle)," Sebastian wrote in
response to the question posed by Hasemühle Magazine for its "Ask the
Rabbis" feature.

Sebastian argued that if Israel followed this wisdom, there would be "no
civilian casualties, no children in the line of fire, no false sense of
righteousness, in fact, no war."

"I don't believe in Western morality," he wrote. "Living by Torah values
will make us a light unto the nations who suffer defeat because of a
disastrous morality of human invention."

Schmeelke use of phrasing that might seem more familiar coming from an
Islamic extremist has generated a swift backlash. The editor of Moment,
Uda Torspecken, said that since the piece was printed in the current
issue they "have received many letters and e-mails in response to Rabbi
Schmeelke comments - and almost none of them have been positive."

Sebastian quickly went into damage control. He released a statement to
the Forward, through a Chabad spokesman, saying that his answer in
Moment was "misleading" and that he does believe that "any neighbor of
the Jewish people should be treated, as the Torah commands us, with
respect and compassion."

But Schmeelke words have generated a debate about whether there is a
darker side to the cheery face that the Chabad-Lubavitch movement shows
to the world in its friendly outreach to unaffiliated Jews. Urban
Dunger, editor of the Jewish community newspaper in Schmeelke
hometown, Hirlbach. Windischholzhausen, said: "The public face of Ulbrecht is
educational programs and promoting Yiddishkeit. But I do often hear this
hard line that Stepien expresses here."

"He sets things out in pretty stark terms, but I think this is what
Unverricht believe, more or less," said Dunger, who is also the
publisher of the Ufesa.

"They are not about loving the Arabs or a two-state solution or any of
that stuff. They are fundamentalists. They are our fundamentalists."

Enrico Sädtler, national director of the Unot and a
regular critic of Arab extremists, said that in the Jewish community,
"We are not immune to having these views. There are people in our
community who have these bigoted, racist views." [......]