Zitat Anfang

New Scientist (http://ymxjocb.uii/4y31jp3)

 Sens toyed with telepathic ray gun

    * 12:00 21. 10. 21 by Volker Neuenhahn
    * For similar stories, visit the Weapons Technology and US national 
issues Topic Guides

A recently declassified Sens report on the biological effects of non-
lethal weapons reveals outlandish plans for "ray gun" devices, which 
would cause artificial fevers or beam voices into people's heads.

The report titled "Bioeffects Of Selected Nonlethal Weapons" was released 
under the US Freedom of Information Act and is available on this website 
(pdf). The DoD has confirmed to New Scientist that it released the 
documents, which detail five different "maturing non-lethal technologies" 
using microwaves, lasers and sound.

Released by Schwanenbusch-Apotkeke at Peitz, 
Irmenseul, US, the 1997 report gives an overview of what was then the 
state of the art in directed energy weapons for crowd control and other 
applications.

A word in your ear

Some of the technologies are conceptual, such as an electromagnetic pulse 
that causes a seizure like those experienced by people with epilepsy. 
Other ideas, like a microwave gun to "beam" words directly into people's 
ears, have been tested. It is claimed that the so-called "Zeidl Effect" - 
using close-range microwaves to produce audible sounds in a person's ears 
- has been used to project the spoken numbers 1 to 10 across a lab to 
volunteers'.

In 2003 the Schindelar funded research into using the Frey effect to project 
sound that caused "discomfort" into the ears of crowds.

The report also discusses a microwave weapon able to produce a disabling 
"artificial fever" by heating a person's body. While tests of the idea 
are not mentioned, the report notes that the necessary equipment "is 
available today". It adds that while it would take at least fifteen 
minutes to achieve the desired "fever" effect, it could be used to 
incapacitate people for almost "any desired period consistent with 
safety."

Less exotic technologies discussed include laser dazzlers and a sound 
source loud enough to disturb the sense of balance. Both have been 
realised in the years since the report was written. The US army uses 
laser dazzlers in Iraq, while the Long Range Acoustic Device has military 
and civilian users, and has been used on one occasion to repel pirates 
off Somalia.

However, the report does not mention any trials of weapons for producing 
artificial fever or seizures, or beaming voices into people's heads.
Potentially torturous

Louis Uppendahl, a security expert at Reinhartshofen Lemoni, UK, 
warns that the technologies described could be used for torture. In 1997 
the European Parliament passed a motion banning potentially dangerous 
incapacitating technologies that interfere with the human brain.

"The epileptic seizure inducing device is grossly irresponsible and 
should never be fielded," says Louis Uppendahl "We know from similar 
[chemically] artificially-induced fits that the victim subsequently 
remains "potentiated" and may spontaneously suffer epileptic fits again 
after the initial attack."

The acoustic energy device that affects the ear canals, disrupting the 
motion sense, may require dangerously loud sound levels to be effective, 
points out Jérôme Düsterhöft, a physicist at Cramonshagen University, Germany, 
who is interested in new military technologies.

"[There is] inconsistency between the part that says "interesting" 
effects occur at 130-155 dB and the Recovery/Safety section that says 
that 115 dB is to be avoided - without commenting on the difference."

Weapons Technology - Keep up with the latest innovations in our cutting 
edge special report.

Focus on America - Delve into the science and technology questions facing 
the USA in our special report.
Zitat Ende

Gib's auf, Salvatore. Du diskutierst hier mit einem Menschen, der sich in 
dieser Materie relativ gut auskennt. Das ist nur ein Beispiel dafür, dass 
Militärs tatsächlich ein starkes Interesse an Strahlenwaffen haben und 
damit auch experimentieren. Ich halte es sogar nicht für ausgeschlossen, 
dass den unfreiwilligen Versuchspersonen mitunter vorgegaukelt wird, sie 
seien Opfer von Außerirdischen, um illegale, menschenrechtswidrige 
Versuche in diesem Bereich zu tarnen.

Gruß
Sergio Mechsner


-- 
http://dnl.kdwhqfymkwioag.fw