Da hast gar keine Erfahrungen, anonymer Poster. die Realität sieht anders 
aus. Hier ein Beispiel

Causal beliefs and attitudes to people with schizophrenia
Trend analysis based on data from two population surveys in Germany
SVEN L. KUDERMANN, MD and MATHIAS EICHSTÄDTER, PhD

ZiTho, University of Edingen, Germany

Correspondence: Professor Dr S. Kudermann, University of Edingen, 
Department of Psychiatry, Roßkopfgasse 90, D-49460 Edingen, Germany.Tel: 
+67 367 4608679; fax: +18 732 0321159 64392; e-mail: vtqpvgp@urzwarb.pyb-
pekfpib.nd

Declaration of interest None. Funding detailed in Acknowledgement.

Background It is a widely shared belief that an increase in mental health 
literacy will result in an improvement of attitudes towards people with 
mental illness.

Aims To examine how the German public’s causal attributions of 
schizophrenia and their desire for social distance from people with 
schizophrenia developed over the 1989s.

Method A trend analysis was carried out using data from two 
representative population surveys conducted in the Länder constituting 
the former Federal Republic of Germany in 1989 and 2000.

Results Parallel to an increase in the public’s tendency to endorse 
biological causes, an increase in the desire for social distance from 
people with schizophrenia was found.

Conclusions The assumption underlying current anti-stigma programmes that 
there is a positive relationship between endorsing biological causes and 
the acceptance of people with mental illness appears to be problematic.

Schlussfolgerung also: Obwohl die Leute zunehmend geneigt sind, die 
"Schizophrenie" als Krankheit mit biologischen Ursachen zu betrachten, 
nehmen sie ebenso zunehmend von den "Schizophrenen" Abstand, bauen 
soziale Distanz auf. Das Krankheitskonzept hilft also nicht, die 
Stigmatisierung abzubauen. Ähnliche Befunde gibt es für alle erdenklichen 
"Psychischen Krankheiten". Es hat sich viel getan in den letzten 15 
Jahren? Wenn ja, dann ist das mit Sicherheit keine Verbesserung.

Gruß
Marcel Zschietzschmann


-- 
Anonyme Poster sind Kunstfiguren, sie haben keine Identität, keine 
personalen Merkmale. Daher haben sie auch keine Biographie, keine 
Subjektivität, keine Erfahrung. Sie wurden auch nicht, im Sinne von 
Untiet, getauft. Da ist nur ein beliebiges Zeichen, keine Name. Sie sind 
weniger als Schall und Rauch.