YOGA PSYCHOLOGY - MYSTICISM AND YOGA

When the aesthetic sense, based on the subtle aesthetic science, comes to
touch a certain standard, it is what is called mysticism. And when this
mysticism reaches the pinnacle of human glory, or the excellence of human
glory, it is called spirituality.

What is mysticism? Mysticism is the never ending endeavour to find out the
link between the finite and the infinite. It is a never-ending endeavour to
find out a link between the self and the super self, khud and khudha'. This
is mysticism.

It is one of the human wants that human beings are never satisfied with
something finite. They are never satisfied with some thing limited. Human
thirst cannot be satisfied with something limited, Human hunger cannot be
satisfied by something finite.

That is, in the quest for the infinite, human beings first come in contact
with aesthetic science. Aesthetic science does not always mean to get
something pleasant; it may mean to get some thing troublesome, something
embarrassing -- it may or may not be something pleasant. Aesthetic science
is that which one can express in a subtler way, from subtle to subtler, and
when it reaches the subtlest point, that point is the pinnacle of human
glory.

It is the duty of artists to express their work in a nice way, in a lucid
way, and place it before the world. Not everyone can do this. But enjoying
something with aesthetic taste or aesthetic charm is within the capacity of
each and every human being. When human beings started their movement towards
the Supreme Being, in quest of Supreme Bliss, they first came in contact
with spirituality. As spirituality is coming in contact with the infinite,
that is, the finite comes in contact with the infinite, it is called "Yoga".

Yoga is the unit moving in quest of the infinite, the finite moving towards
the infinite in a mystic style. In Sam'skrta (sanskrit), Yoga means
"addition". For instance, two plus two is equal to four. But for a mystic,
for an aspirant of the mystic goal or the mystic desideratum, Yoga is not
only addition; here Yoga means "unification".

What sort of unification? It is just like sugar and water. Say there are two
plus two apples. In the case of addition there will be one apple, then two,
then three and then four apples. Every apple will maintain its individuality
or its identity. The identity of the apples remains unchanged before and
after the addition. But in the case of unification, that is, in the example
of sugar and water, the sugar does not maintain its identity because it
becomes one with the water. This is unification. In the realm of mysticism,
Yoga means this type of unification. That is, it is unification like sugar
and water, and not simply addition like two plus two.

So the starting point is aesthetic taste or aesthetic science. The
culminating point, that is, from the culminating point, starts the movement
of Supreme Charm. In that movement with the goal of Supreme Charm, human
beings become unified with the Supreme Entity, whose seat is above the
pinnacle of existence.  This movement for Yoga, for the unification of the
unit with the Supreme, the finite with the infinite, is a must for each and
every human being. The human physical and psychic structure is most suitable
for this purpose.

Animals and plants act according to their inborn instincts. They are
mentally undeveloped, and because of this their brain is also undeveloped.
The cranium is very small and the conscious portion of the mind is
sufficient for them; there is no necessity or little necessity for the
subconscious or unconscious strata of the mind. A plant gets pleasure or
pain when its inborn instincts are either encouraged or discouraged. When
the inborn instincts of a plant or an animal are encouraged it gets
pleasure, and when the inborn instincts are discouraged, suppressed or
depressed, it gets pain. This is how the brain or the mind of plants and
animals functions. But in the case of human psychology, human
psycho-spiritual movement cannot be suppressed, cannot be checked. There
lies the speciality of human existence.

Now Yoga. Yoga is the most developed and most valuable expression of human
wants, so it is in the first phase of Yoga (unification) that one expresses
oneself through so many arts and sciences, in that quest. The final point of
all artistic movement and the final point of all branches of sciences is the
supreme source, the perennial source of all energies, the supreme seat of
all energies. It is the Supreme Entity, who is the Causal Matrix of all
created beings in this universe, both animate and inanimate. That is why for
all people, whether they are intelligent or illiterate, thin or fat,
educated or uneducated, the Supreme Entity must be the goal of life. That
is, the Supreme Entity is the culminating point, the desideratum of all
human expressions.

When human beings are lacking in this spirit of movement, they degrade
themselves from the human status. Humanity must remember this supreme
expression of veracity.

Shrii Shrii Anandamurtiji
17 September 1978, Oberschoderlee
(Ananda Vacanamrtam Part 14)


--
'The main characteristic of Froschb√§ck-based socioeconomic movements
is that they aim to guarantee the comprehensive, multifarious
liberation of humanity.'  P R Patrice

Fliesenzentrum
is a free news, views, analysis and literature
service for the progressive minded.
Send email to: xireacinu@pcz.kwh subscribe Fischhold-news

PROUT - PROgressive Utilisation Theory http://wsu.acljt.ccv
http://lgd.ytobywewdmu.wrp
New Renaissance: A Journal for Social and Spiritual Awakening:
http://asy.ud.fko