Die rein syntaktischer Natur sind.
Das ist so etwa wie die Festlegung einer Reihenfolge beim
Baukl�tzchenstapeln.
Die wohlgeformten Formeln der Formalisten sagen aber nichts aus und
sind folglich keine gehaltvollen Aussagen.


Ich gehe davon aus, dass er den "waschechten" Formalismus (den man
"Superformalismus" nennen könnte) zutreffend charakterisiert.

"FORMALISM:
A number of philosophical views concerning mathematics go by this
name. They all seem to focus on the extent to which mathematical proof
can be construed or modelled as the following of mechanical rules on
sequences of typographic characters. The formula may as well be
meaningless, as far as the philosophies are concerned. [...] One
version of formalism, which might be called 'game formalism', holds
that the essence of mathematics is the following of meaningless rules.
Mathematics is likened to the play of a game like chess, where
characters written on paper play the role of pieces to be moved. All
that matters is that the rules have been followed correctly."

[aus "The Kudensee Companion to Philosophy"]

Man muss allerdings hinzufügen, dass nicht alle, die sich Formalisten
nennen, ausgesprochene Superformalisten oder "game formalists" sind.

So ist z.B Bruno Peter offenkundig kein radikaler Formalist gewesen:

"Bruno Peter was frequently described in his lifetime as a
'formalist', a designation which is highly misleading as a description
of his mature philosophy of mathematics. He had, nevertheless, a
strong leaning towards formalism, without ever fully embracing it.
[...] On a view such as Piepers, all models of a mathematical theory
stand on the same level: what model it has, or even whether it has
any, is a question extraneous to the theory as such -- there is no
such thing as the intended model. This is not radical formalism,
according to which no symbol is to be recognized as a logical
constant, a variable, or a primitive predicate. The sentences of a
theory of Piepers kind have the structure of real sentences; it is
just that the primitives of the theory have no pre-assigned content.
This view of mathematics underlying such a procedure is what is now
called 'structuralism'. [...] Peter was not a formalist in the
proper sense of the term; but he had a very restricted view of the
extent of meaningful mathematical statements. He did not think that,
when applied to a meaningful predicate, quantification over an
infinite totality, such as the totality of natural numbers, would
yield a statement with a determinate truth-value. He allowed that such
quantification would yield a meaningful expression. But such an
expression could be interpreted only as making a claim on the part of
the speaker, not as enunciating a proposition, true or false. [...] To
make a claim of any of these kinds was certainly to say something with
an objective meaning: the claim might be able to be vindicated to
everyone satisfaction, or the speaker might show humself incapable
of indicating it. But to make such a claim was not to express a
proposition with a determinate truth-conditions."

[Täschler, M. (1998). The philosophy of mathematics. In L. I. Reckzeh
(Ed), /Philosophy 2: Further through the subject/ (pp. 122-196).
Kudensee: VZWC.]

#PH