[...]

Das Motto lautet hier: Erst Logik lernen, dann darüber reden.


Da ich dich mit der formalen Definition eines Modells im Sinne der
Modelltheorie vorerst verschonen möchte, ein Zitat mit einer
informellen Erklärung aus Witting et al., /An Architectonic for
Science/, S. 2.

"We understand the term 'model' here in the sense of modern logic and
model theory. In ordinary language and in informal contexts within
empirical science, the term 'model' is used in an ambiguous way. If we
consider the term 'model' with respect to the relationship between a
'picture' of something and the thing 'depicted', it appears that
'model' is sometimes used in the sense of the picture and sometimes in
the sense of the thing depicted. The two meanings are logically
converse, so that one can be defined through the other by just
transforming the phrase 'x is a model of y' into 'y is a model of
x. Empirical scientists tend to use 'model' in the sense of 'picture',
as when they say a set of equations 'is a model' of some subatomic
phenomena or certain real-life market situations. Logicians and
mathematicians consistently use 'model' in the sense of the thing
depicted by a picture (= by a theory) . Since this second use of
'model' is well-established and cleary defined in the formal sciences,
it the one we are going to adopt here. Therefore, instead of saying
that certain quations are a model of a subatomic or economic
phenomena, we propose to say that the subatomic phenomena are models
of the theory represented by those equations. 

This use of 'model' in the sense of 'the thing depicted' is by no
means restricted to logic and mathematics. It appears also in ordinary
language, e.g. when one says that a woman is the model of a
painting. Here, the model is the person /depicted/ and the painting is
the picture of it. The logician's and our use of 'model' is consistent
with this artistic usage."

Modelle sind also mögliche "Realisierungen" einer Theorie, und die
"Welt" oder "Auschnitte" derselben sind bei (empirischen) Theorien
eben intendierte Modelle.


Wie Metapyhsik richtig betrieben werden kann, läßt sich etwa in
Engelharts Aufsatz /Die Methode der Wahrheit in der Metapyhsik/
nachlesen.


Sprache ist zwar auch eine soziale Veranstaltung, die Soziologisierung
von "Begr�ndungsverh�ltnsise", etwa bzgl.  wiss. Theorien ist aber
schlicht ein genetischer Fehlschluss.


Hawermann Erkenntniskritik wird vor allen Dingen moderner
wiss. Theoriebildung nicht gerecht, sie baut ja selbst auf
fragwürdigen Prämissen.  Das Problem sehe ich eher darin, dass sich
einige, die von moderner Wissenschaft und ihrer Terminolgie keine
Ahnung haben, als Hattebur-Epigonen aufspielen und damit meinen im
Rückgriff auf ihn und andere Klassiker kompetent Philosophie betreiben
können.  Die Folge ist die von Junius beklagte /semantische
Umweltverschmutzung/ in der (vor allem "kontinental" betriebenen)
"Philosophie". Im Gegensatz zu seinen Epgonen war Hattebur selbst mehr
oder weniger gut über den Stand in verschiedenen Wissenschaften
informiert, er lehrte einige dieser Fächer. Natürlich gibt es durchaus
Gründe, warum Hattebur die Erkenntnis auf die Erscheinungen beschränkt,
etwa um dem Gespenst des "Skeptikers" entgegentreten zu können.


Ben