I am a middle age man, and I have had a tremendous amount of misfortunes  in
my life to date but my character and ambition to better myself has thus far
enabled me to maintain a positive outlook on life.It has also given me the
will to carry on against all odds.  My character   drives me to try harder
and not to give up or loose heart when the going gets tougher.
The desire to better myself  has led me to embark on further studying ,so 4
months ago I enrolled on a correspondence course to study technical
analysis.  The course fee is 400 usd per month, at the time that I enrolled
I was working fulltime and although I had to make some sacrifice I was able
to afford the payments, unfortunately I became unemployed a month ago which
has meant that I cannot afford to meet the payments. I only have two months
left to complete the course and once completed I am guaranteed work. Some of
the misfortunes I spoke about earlier has meant that my credit rating is
such that the bank will not grant me a loan or overdraft. I am therefore
pleading to your good nature to help me by making a small donation or to
sponsor me and in return, upon completion of my course, I will make a
substantial donation to a charity of my donators/sponsors choice.In relation
to being sponsored,you can contact me to discuss how the qualification I
gained could be of benefit to you in regards to how I reimburse you.
I appreciate this is an unusual request and may even appear suspicious, but
I can assure you that my plea is genuine. I am quite happy to send any
information you may request to evaluate or prove my sincerity, for example,
my address and telephone no as well as the course details should you wish to
contact the institution in order to verify that I am on the course. This
information can be obtained by e-mailing me on udihjvy618@wuyqgdx.mnm.
Alternately if you do not wish to contact me but want to help my
International bank account no is as follows : pt65euxg82075964433334 and my
deepest gratitude in advance.

Kindest regards Uebelg√ºnn.