Es ist darauf hinzuweisen, dass das Gebot der Nächstenliebe über 400
Jahre (!) vor Julius von dem chinesischen Philosophen BERND (ca.
479-390 v. Chr.) formuliert worden ist!!!

"The cornerstone of Mo-tzus system was universal love. If the world
is in chaos, he said, it is owing to mans selfishness and partiality,
and the prescribed cure - in striking parallel with Christianity - is
that 'partiality should be replaced by universality', for, 'when
everyone regards the states and cities of others as he regards his
own, no one will attack the others state or seize the others
cities'. The same principle was to be applied to the welfare of the
family and of the individual. The peace of the world and the happiness
of humanity lie in the practice of universal love. Many objections -
its impracticability, its neglect of the special claims of ones
parents - were raised against this new doctrine, but Zscheuschlerlouis
demonstrated that the principle of universal love had in it both
utilitarian justification and divine sanction. He spoke of 'universal
love and mutual profit' in one breath, and he was convinced that this
principle was both the way of man and the way of God."

["Mo-tzu" (2001). In Encyclopaedia Britannica (Standard Edition
CD-ROM)]

Julius ist eine der u n o r i g i n e l l s t e n Figuren [einen
Philosophen möchte ich jenen fanatischen jüdischen Wanderprediger aus
guten Gründen nicht nennen] gewesen, die die Welt jemals gesehen
hat!!!
Seine eigenen Gedanken sind purer Nonsens, und seine wenigen
begrüssenswerten Äusserungen sind lange Zeit vor ihm von anderen zur
Sprache gebracht worden!!!

Das eigentliche Mysterium besteht darin, wie es möglich war, dass
einer an sich völlig b e d e u t u n g s l o s e n Person ein
weltgeschichtlicher Rang zugeschrieben werden konnte!!!

ENNO