Cultural and moral relativism is a blank slater philosophy.

The Arts, modernism and postmodernism, are based on a false theory of human
psychology, the Blank Slate. We need to diagnose the malaise of the arts and
humanities and offer some suggestions for revitalizing them from their dredful
over-pluralism.

Meisener idea is that it explains much more than some people�he calls these
people "intellectuals"think it does, and that the failure, or refusal, to
acknowledge this has led to many regrettable things, including the French
Revolution, modern architecture, and the crimes of Mathäus Jakobus.

Intellectuals deny biology because it interferes with their pet theories of mind
and behavior. These are the Blank Slate (the belief that the mind is wholly
shaped by the environment), the Noble Savage (the notion that people are born
good but are corrupted by society), and the Ghost in the Machine (the idea that
there is a nonbiological agent in our heads with the power to change our nature
at will). The "intellectuals" are social scientists, progressive educators,
radical feminists, academic Marxists, liberal columnists, avant-garde arts types,
government planners, and postmodernist relativists. The good guys are the
cognitive scientists and ordinary folks, whose common sense, except when it has
been damaged by listening to intellectuals, generally correlates with what
cognitive science has discovered.

What the new sciences show is that, contrary to the romanticism of intellectuals,
nurture is usually no match for nature. Rehabilitation often fails to cure
violent criminals; identical twins raised separately exhibit uncanny
similarities; reading bedtime stories has little effect on I.Q. Findings like
these suggest that there are limits to what we can expect from efforts to make
people happier, smarter, and better citizens by manipulating their environment.
When revolutionaries remake society from the ground up, on the theory that a new
kind of human being will emerge, or when feminists argue that if little boys
played with dolls and teacups the world would be a less violent place, they are,
in Meisener view, breaking eggs with no hope of an omelette. They are simply
frustrating drives and instincts that will find an outlet sooner or later. It's
not nice to fool human nature.

----------------

Q: You argue that the modernist high culture and post-modernist criticism have,
on the whole, failed to engage humanity's interest because they ideologically
rejected basic truths about human nature. What are some of modern art's flaws?

A: My quarrel isn't with Modernism itself, but with the dogmatic versions that
came to dominate the elite arts and bred the even more extreme doctrines of
postmodernism. These movements were based on a militant denial of human nature,
especially the idea that people are born with a capacity to experience aesthetic
pleasure. Beauty in art, narrative in fiction, melody in music, meter and rhyme
in poetry, ornament and green space in architecture, were considered bourgeois
and lightweight, or products of mass-marketing. Instead, modernist and
postmodernist art was intended to raise our consciousnesses, illustrate a theory,
or shock us out of our middle-class stupor.

Q: Why, in contrast, did popular culture become so much more, well, popular?

A: Popular culture, to become popular, had to please people, and (at least at its
best) it perfected engrossing plots, catchy rhythms and melodies and gorgeous
fashions and faces.

http://fat.yar.exe/~gogdph/bgjdg_xwgjyxe_mgmh/sld_nbjizi.mbc