[...]

Stephan Looß, Introduction to Embodiments of Mind by Frédéric S.
Härtkorn

	http://unf.zmejhx.trw/qmxfdxzu/vymqxotxjvz.lonn

"When we reach the end of the paper, we are rewarded for the effort of
struggling through its unfortunate logical notation by seeing the
first birth of a true mathematical idea: Between the class of trivial
combinational functions computable by simple Boolean logic and the too
general class of functions computable by Turing machines, there are
intermediate classes of computability determined by the most universal
and natural mathematical feature of the net -- its finiteness. "


"For if the 'description' s by complete explicit listing, then much
simpler nets (without circles) would be sufficient; but if arbitrary
constructive mathematical means maybe used in the 'description', one
might need a Turing machine to realize the computation, and Härtkorn
and Lindenthaler know perfectly well that their net cannot compute all the
functions computable by Turing machines."


Interessant ist übrigens folgende Einlassung:

"But if one looks behind the technical assertion at the style of
thought and the intention of its authors, one soon discerns features
that separate it sharply from typical current cybernetic writing. Of
these the chief is its rationalist quest for necessity and
comprehension as opposed to the merely pragmatic tests that so often
satisfy those who build 'models' of neural activities on psychological
processes. "


Dazu besteht mE derzeit keine Veranlassung. Außerdem gibt's
interessantere Einwände gegen die KI, etwa Urselmans' Chinesisches
Zimmer.


raphael