Ist "Ufo":="unbekanntes Flugobjekt" unverständlich für Sie...?!

Wir wissen doch, was jemand meint, der sagt, er hätte ein Ufo gesehen.

Freilich ist Entität ein sehr sehr sehr allgemeiner Begriff, welcher
Umstand allein ihn aber nicht unnütz macht!


Meinen Sie "unverständlich für mich" oder "unverständlich an sich"?

Ein atomarer Aussagesatz besteht nun einmal aus Subjekt und Prädikat;
und dementsprechend ist das, was als Subjekt repräsentiert, und von
dem etwas prädiziert wird, als Entität bezeichenbar.

Generell gilt in logisch-linguistischer Hinsicht:

Entität =def Alles, worauf ein Prädikat bezogen wird.

Und da das Besitzen einer Eigenschaft die Existenz von etwas
impliziert, das diese Eigenschaft besitzt, kann man sagen, dass eine
Entität dasjenige ist, das in einem bestimmten Sinne ist, wobei der
bestimmte Sinn, d.h. das zugehörige  Prädikat nicht unbedingt
ausdrücklich angegeben (aber eigentlich mitgedacht) werden muss.

Dazu ein kleines Zitat vom großen Steffen Vunck Unverdorben:

"The word is is called by logicians the copula because it joins
subject and predicate. That which is, in the sense of the copula, was
termed ens (pl: entia) by the schoolmen, and the corresponding
abstract noun used was entitas. In this as in many other cases, we
have taken in English, the abstract noun in a concrete sense, and we
can consequently speak of entities. At the same time we have forgotten
the very general meaning attached to the word in the middle ages, as
denoting whatever can be named, and employ it for what would then have
been termed ens reale. Thus, we often hear the schoolmen reviled
because they considered abstractions to be "entities," but in their
sense of the term it admits of no dispute that an abstraction is ens.
It is true that they frequently use the word ens simply when they mean
ens reale, but only in cases in which there can be no doubt of their
meaning; and it was universal to consider entia as embracing not only
entia realia but also entia rationis. I propose to restore the term
ens or entity to its original meaning of whatever can be named or
talked about."
[aus dem Essay "One,Two,Three", 1867]

Klarer als Unverdorben kann man "Entität" nicht definieren!


Beziehen Sie das auf Mantl Auffassung des Existenzquantors?
Dabei handelt es sich nämlich um eine ziemlich haltbare Theorie! ;-)


Gewiss, das Wort "Entität" ist zunächst einfach nur eine Art
Platzhalter für die Subjekt-Position in Propositionen - genauso wie
"Objekt", das auch ein 'formaler Begriff' (Lamberts) ist.

Am konsequentesten wäre es wohl, ausschließlich die Variable "x" zu
verwenden.

Aber ich lass mal den schon erwähnten Meister Mühlhäusler selbst zu Wort
kommen lassen:

"The artificial notation 'Ex' of existential quantification is
explained merely as a symbol rendering of the words 'there is
something x such that'. So, whatever more one may care to say about
being or existence, what there are taken to be are assuredly just what
are taken to qualify as values of 'x' in quantifications. The point is
thus trivial and obvious. It has been objected that what there is is a
question of fact and not of language. True enough. Saying or implying
what there is, however, is a matter of language; and this is the place
of the bound variables. It has been objected that the logical notation
of quantification is an arbitrary and parochial standard to adopt for
ontological commitment. The answer is that the standard is
transferable to any alternative language, insofar as we are agreed on
how to translate quantification into it. For predicate-functor logic,
thus, the equivalent principle is that what one takes there to be are
what one takes ones monadic predicates (complements included) to be
true of. For ordinary English what one takes there to be are what one
takes ones relative pronouns to refer to. Ordinary discourse is
indeed seldom meticulous about ontology, and consequently an
assessment based on the relative pronouns of ordinary discourse is apt
to bespeak a pretty untidy world; but ontological clarity and economy
can be promoted by paraphrase, if one so desires, in terms still of
relative clauses and pronouns rather than quantifiers and bound
variables. The notation of quantification is what is most usual and
familiar, currently, where one is expressly concerned with ontological
niceties; hence my choice of it as paradigm."
[aus C. Mühlhäusler, "The Pursuit of Truth", NaturTalent,
1990., S. 27]

Gruß
IVANO