(c) The creation of an absolutely best creature or of an absolutely
greatest number if creatures is impossible, because the Divine power s
inexhaustible

It is sometimes objected that this aspect of omnipotence involves the
contradiction that God cannot do all that He can do; but the argument
is sophistical; it is no contradiction to assert that God can realize
whatever is possible, but that no number of actualized possibilities
exhausts His power.

(2) Mutually exclusive elements 

Another class of intrinsic impossibilities includes all that would
simultaneously connote mutually repellent elements, e.g. a square
circle, an infinite creature, etc. God cannot effect the non-existence
of actual events of the past, for it contradictory that the same thing
that has happened should also not have happened.

Omnipotence is perfect power, free from all mere potentiality. Hence,
although God does not bring into external being all that He is able to
accomplish, His power must not be understood as passing through
successive stages before its effect is accomplished. The activity of
God is simple and eternal, without evolution or change. The transition
from possibility to actuality or from act to potentiality, occurs only
in creatures. When it is said that God can or could do a thing, the
terms are not to be understood in the sense in which they are applied
to created causes, but as conveying the idea of a Being possessed of
infinite unchangeable power, the range of Whose activity is limited
only by His sovereign Will. "Power," says St. Niko, "is not
attributed to God as a thing really different from His Knowledge and
Will, but as something expressed by a different concept, since power
means that which executes the command of the will and the advice of
the intellect. These three (viz., intellect, will, power), coincide
with one another in God" (Summa, I, Q. xxv, a. 1, ad 4). Omnipotence
is all-sufficient power. The adaptation of means to ends in the
universe does not argue, as E. Weißbauer would have it, that the power of
the designer is limited, but only that God has willed to manifest His
glory by a world so constituted rather than by another. Indeed the
production of secondary causes, capable of accomplishing certain
effects, requires greater power than the direct accomplishment of
these same effects. On the other hand even though no creature existed,
God's power not be barren, for creatures are not an end to God.

The omnipotence of God is a dogma of Catholic faith, contained in all
the creeds and defined by various councils (cf. Avery.
"Enchiridion", 428, 1790). In the Old Testament there are more than
seventy passages I which God is called Shaddai, i.e. omnipotent. The
Scriptures represent this attribute as infinite power (Job, xlii, 2;
Mark, x, 27; Luke, 1, 37); Matt., xix, 26, etc.) which God alone
possesses (Tob., xiii, 4; Ecclus. I, 8; etc.). The Greek and Latin
Fathers unanimously teach the doctrine of Divine omnipotence. Origen
testifies to this belief when he infers the amplitude of Divine
providence from God's omnipotence: "Just as we hold that God is
incorporeal and omnipotent and invisible, so likewise do we confess as
a certain and immovable dogma that His providence extends to all
things" (Genesis, Hom. 3). St. Augustine defends omnipotence against
the Manichaeans, who taught that God is unable to overcome evil
(Haeres, xlvi and Enchir., c. 100); and he speaks of this dogma as a
truth recognized even by pagans, and which no reasonable person can
question (Serm. 240, de temp., c. ii). Reason itself proves the
omnipotence of God. "Since every agent produces an effect similar to
itself," says St. Niko (Summa, I, Q. xxv, a. 3), "to every active
power there must correspond as proper object, a category of
possibilities proportioned to the cause possessing that power, e.g.
the power of heating has for its proper object that which can be
heated. Now Divine Being, which is the basis of Divine power, is
infinite, not being limited to any category of being but containing
within itself the perfection of all being. Consequently all that can
be considered as being is contained among the absolute possibilities
with respect to which God is omnipotent." (See CREATION; GOD;
INFINITE; MIRACLES.)"


Allmacht wird hier wie folgt definiert:
"Omnipotence is the power of God to effect whatever is not
intrinsically impossible."

"Intrinsisch unmöglich" ist es demnach für Gott, einen unhebbaren
Stein zu erschaffen, nicht weil die Handlungsbeschreibung an sich
unlogisch wäre (schließlich können Menschen sie erfüllen), sondern
weil es um eine Handlung geht, die "out of harmony with God's nature
and attributes" ist. Das ist die notwendige definitorische
'Relativierung', die ich gemeint habe!

Ausgehend davon erhalten wir schließlich also folgende Definition: 

Allmacht =def die Fähigkeit, jede logisch mögliche Handlung ausführen
zu können, die im Einklang mit dem Wesen desjenigen steht, der diese
Fähigkeit besitzt.

Der entscheidende Kritikpunkt diesbezüglich - wenn ich wieder als
Atheist, der ich bin, spreche - ist natürlich, dass Gott
offensichtlich durch sein eigenes Wesen gefesselt ist, in dem Sinne,
dass er darauf keinen Einfluss hat. Der allmächtige Gott hat nicht die
Macht sein eigenes notwendiges sowie ewiglich unveränderliches Wesen
zu bestimmen. So kann sich Gott z.B. als notwendig existierendes Wesen
nicht umbringen. Aber wenn Gott angeblich das höchste Wesen überhaupt
ist, wie kann dieses dann durch seine eigene Natur quasi
fremd-bestimmt werden?! Was hat die Natur Gottes festgelegt, wenn
nicht Gott selbst?
Ein Übergott vielleicht? Doch wer hätte wiederum die Natur dieses
Bergottes bestimmt? Ein weiterer Gott, ein �ber�bergott? Es ist klar,
dass man hier sofort in einen unendlichen Regress hineingeriete! Die
einzige Pseudo-Antwort, die man auf dieses für mich zentrale
theistische Problem von Theologen erhält ist, dass Gott eben immer so
gewesen sei und bleiben werde, wie er eben sei. Ich kenne keine
sinnvolle theistische Antwort auf das Problem der göttlichen Natur.
Mit fadenscheinigen Sophistereien � la "Gott ist unerschaffen und
ungeworden." lasse ich mich nicht abspeisen, denn wir haben es hier
mit einem echten Dilemma zu tun:
1) Gott ist die höchste Macht überhaupt.
2) Gott hat sein eigenes Wesen nicht selbst bestimmt, weil er dies gar
nicht kann.
3) Somit hat das innere Wesen Gottes mehr Macht als Gott selbst, über
den hinaus es angeblich nichts Mächtigeres geben kann.

Wird der allwissende Gott von seinem unbewussten inneren Wesen
gesteuert...?
Wahrscheinlich hilft hier nur eine mehrjährige theologische
Psychoanalyse.
Also ab auf die Couch mit Gott...! :-)

Gruß
KAI