Du solltest einfach weiter lesen:

"4. Semantics

Let K be a set of non-logical terminology. An interpretation for the
language 1K= is a structure M = <d,I>, where d is a non-empty set,
called the domain-of-discourse, or simply the domain, of the
interpretation, and I is an interpretation function. Informally, the
domain is what we interpret the language 1K= to be about. It is what
the variables range over. The interpretation function assigns
appropriate extensions to the non-logical terms. In particular, If c
is a constant in K, then I(c) is a member of the domain d.  If P0 is a
zero-place predicate letter in K, then I(P0) is a truth value, either
truth or falsehood.

If Q1 is a one-place predicate letter in K, then I(Q) is a subset of
d. Intuitively, I(Q) is the set of members of the domain that the
predicate Q holds of. If Q represents "red", then I(Q) might be the
red members of the domain.

If R2 is a two-place predicate letter in K, then I(R) is a set of
ordered pairs of members of d. Intuitively, I(R) is the set of pairs
of members of the domain that the relation R holds between. If R
represents "love", then I(R) might consist of the pairs <a,b>, such
that a loves b.

In general, if Sn is an n-place predicate letter in K, then I(S) is a
set of ordered n-tuples of members of d."


Die Sätze *erwähnen* (sprechen über) die Entitäten des Diskurs-oder
Individuenbereichs (domain of discurse), in dem sie interpretiert
werden, das *kann* die "alltagsphysikalische Welt" mit ihren
Gegenständen wie Tischen und Stühlen, aber auch abstrakte
Gegenstandsbereiche, wie etwa natürliche Zahlen, sein, je nach dem,
wie der /Diskursbereich/ gewählt wird. Wenn du *Anwendungen* der
modelltheoretischen Semantik in phil. Argumenten sehen möchtest, lies
etwa Chun, Vernunft, Wahrheit und Geschichte.  Sie wird auch
verwendet, um *normalsprachliche* Sätze zu interpretieren, also für
eine Bedeutungstheorie von natürlichen Sprachen, etwa bei Essenwein.


jürg