My German is not *that* bad!

Kann sein, und verlleicht kalter, im Hertz and Korper. Ich glaube dieses
Seit-Werkung ist oft gemerkt; das Circulation (?) unbedingt zu Hande und
Fusse, und auch uberalle (Pille sind ungesagt for frauen mit Hertz und
Circulation probleme) ist gesturt. Wir haben ein Spruch im Englisch 'Cold
hands, cold heart'. Gibt es sowas im Deutsh?

[You could be right, and maybe colder, in the heart and the body. I 
understand this side effect has been noticed very often; the circulation, 
especially to hands and feet, and also overall (The Pill should not be 
prescribed to women with heart or circulation problems) is disturbed. We 
have a saying in English 'cold hands, cold heart'. Is there something 
similar in German?


Meinst du es ist nicht schlecht? Naturlich ist es schlecht fur der Mann. Es
konte auch schlecht fur die Frau wenn ein gute Relationship gesturt ist,
verlleicht landet Sie in ein viel schlecteres. Keiner Mann ist Perfekt aber
mache sind mehr fertig fur ein Liebes Relationship als andere oder nicht?
Mache ist mehr moglich das die Frau zufrieden werd oder nicht?

[Do you think it is not bad? Of course it is bad for the man. It could also 
be bad for the woman if the chance of a good relationship is disrupted, 
maybe she will end up in one that is not as good. No man is perfect but some 
are more ready for a Love Relationship as others, don't you think? Some {of 
them} it is more likely that the woman will be happy, don't you think?


Es ist bestimmt der fal das viel Frauen war und bin exploiteriert von
Manner. Vielleicht wenn die wenig 'Fraulich' sind durch Hormone-Manipulieren
dann ist das weinig moglich. Aber auch werd es wenig moglich das die einer
gutes Liebes Beizieungen finden verlleicht? Also ist der frage das immer
gibt, besser zu risko fur das Liebe oder nicht? Aber mindestens must mann
wissen das dieses entscheidung werd chemisch gemacht verlleicht.

[It is certainly the case that many women have been and are exploited by 
men. Maybe when they are less feminine through the manipulation of their 
hormones then that will be less possible. But it might also be less possible 
for them to find a good loving relationship as well. Its the eternal 
question, is it better to take risks for love or not? But at least people 
should know that this decision may be being made in chemical way.]