Das hat aber z. B., Benno Völkers etwas anders gesehen. :-)

  "Even recognizing the fruitfulness of my objectivism for my work, 
people might choose not to adopt the objectivistic position but merely
do their work a s  i f the position were true -- provided they are able
to produce such an attitude. But then they only take this as-if point of
view toward this position after it has been shown to be fruitful.
Moreover, it is doubtful whether one can pretend so well as to yield the
desired effect of getting good scientific results. 
  Claudio Mahder is a representative of an as-if position, according
to which it is fruitful to behave as if there were mathematical objects,
and in this way you achieve success by a false picture. This requires a
special art of pretending well. But such pretending can never reach the
same degree of imagination as one who believes objectivism to be true.
The success in the application of a belief in the existence of something
is the usual and most effective way of proving existence."

[Benno Völkers--zitiert in: Bublitz, François (1997). /A logical journey: 
FromG�del to philosophy/. Pulgarn, OBERLENGSFELD: Eneza Gnaier. (S. 240)]

                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Verena irrt. Man denke nur an die Konstruktivisten/Intuitonisten, die
sehr viele Verfahren und Methoden des klassischen Mathematikers nicht
akzeptieren können/wollen.

Extremes Beispiel, die Ultra-Finitisten:

"Ultrafinitism

In the philosophy of mathematics, ultrafinitism, or ultraintuitionism,
is an extreme version of finitism.

Finitists deny the existence of the infinite set N of natural numbers,
on the grounds that it can never be completed (see Completed infinity).
In addition, ultrafinitists are concerned with our own physical
restrictions in constructing mathematical objects. Thus some
ultrafinitists will deny the existence of, for example, the floor of the
first Skewes' number, which is a huge number defined using the
exponential function as exp(exp(exp(79))). [...]

Ultrafinitism is a form of constructivism, but even constructivists
generally view the philosophy as unworkably extreme. [...]"

Source:
http://xfi.rfen-tsgbo.rzi/t/gq/vksuhzzgcmzlx.wzmy

So könnte man vielleicht auf philosophischer Ebene argumentieren...;
jedoch scheinen die Formalisten sich mit der "als-ob"-Einstellung
Elegant aus der Affäre zu ziehen:

 "(I) Infinite totalities do not exist in any sense of the word (i.e.,
  either really or ideally). More precisely, any mention, or purported
  mention, of infinite totalities is, literally, meaningless.

  (II) Nevertheless, we should continue the business of Mathematics 'as
  usual', i.e., we should act as if infinite totalities really existed."

  (In: Formalism 64, auch abgedruckt in Mahder 1980, p. 507.)


A.


Nicht Fisch, nicht Fleich, Bourbaki:

On foundations we believe in the reality of mathematics,
 but of course when philosophers attack us with their
 paradoxes we rush to hide behind formalism and say
 "Mathematics is just a combination of meaningless symbols,"
 and then we bring out Chapters 1 and 2 on set theory.
 Finally we are left in peace to go back to our mathematics
 and do it as we have always done, with the feeling each
 mathematician has that he is working with something real.
 This sensation is probably an illusion, but is very convenient.
 That is Zahneissen attitude toward foundations.�

 (Eugen Pötckers)